The objective of this literature review is to analyze the implications of using genetically modified organisms (GMOs) as well as international and European position regarding such organisms.                  Method:                       Review of international and European legal requirements and ethical guidelines and relevant publications, found and accessed with the help of PubMed and Lund University Library databases.                  Results:                       The article discusses the main application areas of GMOs, the expansion of using GMOs in the world as well as the advantages and disadvantages of the implications of their usage. It further provides an overview of the suggested ways to tackle or avoid the GMO-related risks. The international and European positions regarding the application of GMOs are discussed and European Directives, Regulations, and ethical guidelines are overviewed. The article further presents the public attitudes towards GMOs in Europe as well as overviews surveys conducted at the national level.                  Conclusion:                       Suggested steps to tackle the challenge of developing and managing biotechnology for the benefit of public health and the environment are presented.
While transgenic technology has heralded a new era in crop improvement, several concerns have precluded their widespread acceptance. Alternative technologies, such as cisgenesis and genome-editing may address many of such issues and facilitate the development of genetically engineered crop varieties with multiple favourable traits. Genetic engineering and plant transformation have played a pivotal role in crop improvement via introducing beneficial foreign gene(s) or silencing the expression of endogenous gene(s) in crop plants. Genetically modified crops possess one or more useful traits, such as, herbicide tolerance, insect resistance, abiotic stress tolerance, disease resistance, and nutritional improvement. To date, nearly 525 different transgenic events in 32 crops have been approved for cultivation in different parts of the world. The adoption of transgenic technology has been shown to increase crop yields, reduce pesticide and insecticide use, reduce CO2 emissions, and decrease the cost of crop production. However, widespread adoption of transgenic crops carrying foreign genes faces roadblocks due to concerns of potential toxicity and allergenicity to human beings, potential environmental risks, such as chances of gene flow, adverse effects on non-target organisms, evolution of resistance in weeds and insects etc. These concerns have prompted the adoption of alternative technologies like cisgenesis, intragenesis, and most recently, genome editing. Some of these alternative technologies can be utilized to develop crop plants that are free from any foreign gene hence, it is expected that such crops might achieve higher consumer acceptance as compared to the transgenic crops and would get faster regulatory approvals. In this review, we present a comprehensive update on the current status of the genetically modified (GM) crops under cultivation. We also discuss the issues affecting widespread adoption of transgenic GM crops and comment upon the recent tools and techniques developed to address some of these concerns.
It is a common ground that humans have always modified the genome of both plants and animals. This intrusive process that has existed for thousands of years, many times through mistakes and failures, was initially carried out through the crossing of organisms with desirable features. This was done with the aim of creating and producing new plants and animals that would benefit humans, that is , they would offer better quality food, more opportunities for people to move and transport products, greater returns to work, resistance to diseases, etc. However, creating genetically modified organisms does not proceed without conflicts. One part of the equation concerns objections made by disputants of genetically modified organisms to the manipulation of life, as opposed to defenders who argue that it is essentially an extension of traditional plant cultivation and animal breeding techniques. There are also conflicts regarding the risks to the environment and human health from using genetically modified organisms. Concerns about the risks to the environment and human health from genetically modified products have been the subject of much debate, which has led to the development of regulatory frameworks for the evaluation of genetically modified crops. However, the absence of a globally accepted framework has the effect of slowing down technological development with negative consequences for areas of the world that could benefit from new technologies. So, while genetically modified crops can provide maximum benefits in food safety and in adapting crops to existing climate change, the absence of reforms, as well as the lack of harmonization of the frameworks and regulations about the genetic modifications results in all those expected benefits of using genetically modified crops being suspended. However, it is obvious that the evolution of genetically modified products is not going to stop. For that reason, research on the impact of genetic modification on medical technologies, agricultural production, commodity prices, land use and on the environment in general, should therefore continue.
Transgenic cotton is among the first transgenic plants commercially adopted around the world. Since it was first introduced into the field in the middle of the 1990s, transgenic cotton has been quickly adopted by cotton farmers in many developed and developing countries. Transgenic cotton has offered many important environmental, social, and economic benefits, including reduced usage of pesticides, indirect increase of yield, minimizing environmental pollution, and reducing labor and cost. Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation method is the major method for obtaining transgenic cotton. However, pollen tube pathway-mediated method is also used, particularly by scientists in China, to breed commercial transgenic cotton. Although transgenic cotton plants with disease resistance, abiotic stress tolerance, and improved fiber quality have been developed in the past decades, insect-resistant and herbicide-tolerant cottons are the two dominant cottons in transgenic cotton market.
At the time of its first clinical application 100 years ago, insulin was presented as the cure for people with diabetes mellitus. That transpired to be an overstatement, yet insulin has proven to be the lifesaver for people with type 1 diabetes mellitus and an essential therapy for many with type 2 diabetes mellitus or other forms of diabetes mellitus. Since its discovery, insulin (a molecule of only 51 amino acids) has been the subject of pharmaceutical research and development that has paved the way for other protein-based therapies. From purified animal-extracted insulin and human insulin produced by genetically modified organisms to a spectrum of insulin analogues, pharmaceutical laboratories have strived to tailor the preparations to the needs of patients. Nonetheless, overall glycaemic control often remains poor as exogenous insulin is still not able to mimic the physiological insulin profile. Circumventing subcutaneous administration and the design of analogues with profiles that mimic that of physiological insulin are ongoing areas of research. Novel concepts, such as once-weekly insulins or glucose-dependent and oral insulins, are on the horizon but their real-world effectiveness still needs to be proven. Until a true cure for type 1 diabetes mellitus is found and the therapeutic arsenal for other forms of diabetes mellitus is expanded, insulin will remain central in the treatment of many people living with diabetes mellitus.
In several parts of the world, the prevalence and severity of drought are predicted to increase, creating considerable pressure on global agricultural yield. Among all abiotic stresses, drought is anticipated to produce the most substantial impact on soil biota and plants, along with complex environmental impacts on other ecological systems. Being sessile, plants tend to be the least resilient to drought-induced osmotic stress, which reduces nutrient accessibility due to soil heterogeneity and limits nutrient access to the root system. Drought tolerance is a complex quantitative trait regulated by multiple genes, and it is one of the most challenging characteristics to study and classify. Fortunately, the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR) technology has paved the way as a new frontier in crop improvement, thereby revolutionizing plant breeding. The application of CRISPER systems has proven groundbreaking across numerous biological fields, particularly in biomedicine and agriculture. The present review highlights the principle and optimization of CRISPR systems and their implementation for crop improvement, particularly in terms of drought tolerance, yield, and domestication. Furthermore, we address the ways in which innovative genome editing tools can help recognize and modify novel genes coffering drought tolerance. We anticipate the establishment of effective strategies of crop yield improvement in water-limited regions through collaborative efforts in the near future.
Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) are increasingly becoming a topic of controversy in the U.S. and abroad. The public is questioning their safety and wanting the products labeled as genetically modified. There are other concerns from some of the scientific world and some government officials and organizations such as the Food & Agricultural Organization (FAO) that question whether adequate research has been done to qualify GMOs as safe for long-term use. Of particular concern are the allergenic properties, a GMO may impart, possible transfer effects of antibiotic resistance (given that antibiotic resistant marker genes are used for many GMOs), the expression of previously unexpressed traits, and the drift of pollen from genetically modified crops. It has also been noted that the laws and regulations governing the biotechnology world are outdated, are not comprehensive, and span too many agencies. The primary agencies currently regulating biotechnology are the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
According to European Commission (EC) Regulation 1139/98, foods and food ingredients that are to be delivered to the final consumer in which either protein or DNA resulting from genetic modification is present, shall be subject to additional specific labeling requirements. Since 1994, genetically altered tomatoes, squash, potatoes, canola, cotton, and soy have been on the market. Recently, insect-resistant and herbicide-tolerant maize varieties have been introduced. Soy and maize are 2 of the most important vegetable crops in the world. During the past 4 years, both protein- and DNA-based methods have been developed and applied for detection of transgenic soy and maize, and their derivatives. For protein-based detection, specific monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies have been developed; for immunochemical detection, Western blot analysis and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays are the most prominent examples. For detection of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) at the level of DNA, polymerase chain reaction-based methods are mainly used. For these reactions, highly specific primer sets are needed. This study compares the principally different methods. Specificity of methods and the possible risks of false-positive or false-negative results are considered in relation to sampling, matrix effects, and food processing procedures. In addition, quantitative aspects of protein- and DNA-based GM detection methods are presented and discussed. This is especially relevant as EC regulation 49/2000, which defines a threshold for an unintentional comingling of 1%, came into force on April 10, 2000.
Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) is one of the most important greenhouse vegetables, with a large cultivated area across the world. However, in northern China, tomato plants often suffer from low-temperature stress in solar greenhouse cultivation, which affects plant growth and development and results in economic losses. We previously found that a chloroplast aldolase gene in tomato, SlFBA4, plays an important role in the Calvin-Benson cycle (CBC), and its expression level and activity can be significantly altered when subjected to low-temperature stress. To further study the function of SlFBA4 in the photosynthesis and chilling tolerance of tomato, we obtained transgenic tomato plants by the over-expression and RNA interference (RNAi) of SlFBA4. The over-expression of SlFBA4 led to higher fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase activity, net photosynthetic rate (Pn) and activity of other enzymes in the CBC than wild type. Opposite results were observed in the RNAi lines. Moreover, an increase in thousand-seed weight, plant height, stem diameter and germination rate in optimal and sub-optimal temperatures was observed in the over-expression lines, while opposite effects were observed in the RNAi lines. Furthermore, over-expression of SlFBA4 increased Pn and enzyme activity and decreased malonaldehyde (MDA) content under chilling conditions. On the other hand, Pn and MDA content were more severely influenced by chilling stress in the RNAi lines. These results indicate that SlFBA4 plays an important role in tomato growth and tolerance to chilling stress.
Identifying and assessing unintended effects in genetically modified food and feed are considered paramount by the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), World Health Organization (WHO), and Codex Alimentarius, despite heated debate. This paper addresses outstanding needs: building consensus on the history-of-safe-use concept, harmonizing criteria to select appropriate conventional counterparts, and improving endpoint selection to identify unintended effects.
Vaccination is the most effective method of preventing infectious diseases. Since the eradication of small pox in 1976, many other potentially life compromising if not threatening diseases have been dealt with subsequently. This event was a major leap not only in the scientific world already burdened with many diseases but also in the mindset of the common man who became more receptive to novel treatment options. Among the many protozoan diseases, the leishmaniases have emerged as one of the largest parasite killers of the world, second only to malaria. There are three types of leishmaniasis namely cutaneous (CL), mucocutaneous (ML), and visceral (VL), caused by a group of more than 20 species of Leishmania parasites. Visceral leishmaniasis, also known as kala-azar is the most severe form and almost fatal if untreated. Since the first attempts at leishmanization, we have killed parasite vaccines, subunit protein, or DNA vaccines, and now we have live recombinant carrier vaccines and live attenuated parasite vaccines under various stages of development. Although some research has shown promising results, many more potential genes need to be evaluated as live attenuated vaccine candidates. This mini-review attempts to summarize the success and failures of genetically modified organisms used in vaccination against some of major parasitic diseases for their application in leishmaniasis.
Environmental adversities, particularly drought and nutrient limitation, are among the major causes of crop losses worldwide. Due to the rapid increase of the world's population, there is an urgent need to combine knowledge of plant science with innovative applications in agriculture to protect plant growth and thus enhance crop yield. In recent decades, engineering strategies have been successfully developed with the aim to improve growth and stress tolerance in plants. Most strategies applied so far have relied on transgenic approaches and/or chemical treatments. However, to cope with rapid climate change and the need to secure sustainable agriculture and biomass production, innovative approaches need to be developed to effectively meet these challenges and demands. In this review, we summarize recent and advanced strategies that involve the use of plant-related cyanobacterial proteins, macro- and micronutrient management, nutrient-coated nanoparticles, and phytopathogenic organisms, all of which offer promise as protective resources to shield plants from climate challenges and to boost stress tolerance in crops.
Representatives of the developers of modern agricultural biotechnology are proposing a tiered approach for conducting non-target organism risk assessment for genetically modified (GM) plants in Europe. The approach was developed by the Technical Advisory Group of the EuropaBio Plant Biotechnology Unit (http://www.europabio.org/TAG.htm) and complements other international activities to harmonize risk assessment. In the European Union (EU), the principles and methods to be followed in an environmental risk assessment for the placing on the market of GM plants are laid out in Annex II of Directive 2001/18/EC on the deliberate release into the environment of GMOs, Commission Decision 2002/623/EC and Regulation (EC) No. 1829/2003. Additional information is provided in the European Food Safety Authority guidance document of 2004. However, risk assessment for effects to non-target organisms could benefit from further clarification and remains the subject of much discussion in Europe. The industry-wide approach developed by EuropaBio is based on the fundamental steps of risk evaluation, namely hazard and exposure assessment. It follows a structured scheme including assessment planning, product characterization and assessment of hazard/exposure (Tier 0), single high dose and dose response testing (Tier 1), refined hazard characterization and exposure assessment (Tier 2) and further refined risk assessment experiments (Tier 3). An additional tier (Tier 4) was included to reflect the fact that post-market activities such as monitoring are required under Directive 2001/18/EC. The approach is compatible with conditions of commercial release in the EU and around the world.
Technologies for controlling mosquito vectors based on genetic manipulation and the release of genetically modified mosquitoes (GMMs) are gaining ground. However, concrete epidemiological evidence of their effectiveness, sustainability, and impact on the environment and nontarget species is lacking; no reliable ecological evidence on the potential interactions among GMMs, target populations, and other mosquito species populations exists; and no GMM technology has yet been approved by the WHO Vector Control Advisory Group. Our opinion is that, although GMMs may be considered a promising control tool, more studies are needed to assess their true effectiveness, risks, and benefits. Overall, several lines of evidence must be provided before GMM-based control strategies can be used under the integrated vector management framework.
This review summarizes the recent advances in legume genetic transformation and provides an insight into the critical factors that play a major role in the process. It also sheds light on some of the potential areas which may ameliorate the transformation of legumes. Legumes are an important group of dicotyledonous plants, highly enriched in proteins and minerals. Majority of the legume plants are cultivated in the arid and semi-arid parts of the world, and hence said to be climate resilient. They have the capability of atmospheric nitrogen fixation and thus play a vital role in the ecological sphere. However, the worldwide production of legumes is somehow not up to the mark and the yields are greatly affected by various biotic and abiotic stress factors. Genetic engineering strategies have emerged as a core of plant biology and remarkably facilitate the crop improvement programmes. A significant progress has been made towards the optimization of efficient transformation system for legume plants over the years but this group is still underutilized in comparison to other crops. Among the variety of available DNA delivery systems, Agrobacterium-mediated and particle bombardment have been primarily deployed for optimization and trait improvement. However, recalcitrance and genotype-dependence are some of the major bottlenecks for successful transformation. In this context, the present review summarizes the advances taken place in the area of legume transformation and provides an insight into the present scenario. The challenges and future possibilities for yield improvement have also been discussed.
The recombinant era for haemophilia began in the early 1980s with the cloning and subsequent expression of functional proteins for both factors VIII and IX. Efficient production of recombinant clotting factors in mammalian cell culture systems required overcoming significant challenges due to the complex post-translational modifications that were integral to their pro-coagulant function. The quick development and commercialization of recombinant clotting factors was, in part, facilitated by the catastrophic impact of viral contamination of plasma-derived clotting factor concentrates at the time. Since their transition into the clinic, the recombinant versions of both factor VIII and IX have proven to be remarkable facsimiles of their plasma-derived counterparts. The broad adoption of recombinant therapy throughout the developed world has significantly increased the supply of clotting factor concentrates and helped advance aggressive therapeutic interventions such as prophylaxis. The development of recombinant VIIa was a further advance bringing a recombinant option to haemophilia patients with inhibitors. Recombinant DNA technology remains the platform to address ongoing challenges in haemophilia care such as reducing the costs of therapy, increasing the availability to the developing world, and improving the functional properties of these proteins. In turn, the ongoing development of new recombinant clotting factor concentrates is providing alternatives for patients with other inherited bleeding disorders.
An alarming increase in the human population necessitates doubling the world food production in the next few decades. Although a number of possible biotechnological measures are under consideration, central to these efforts is the development of transgenic crops to produce more food, and the traits with which plants could better adapt to adverse environmental conditions in a changing climate. The emergence of new tools for the introduction of foreign genes into plants has increased both our knowledge and the capacity to develop transgenic plants. In addition, a better understanding of genetic modifications has allowed us to study the impact that genetically modified crop plants may have on the environment. This article discusses different techniques routinely used to carry out genetic modifications in plants while highlighting challenges with them, which future research must address to increase acceptance of GM crops for meeting food security challenges effectively.
In recent times, it has become imperative for countries to define and implement policy in biosafety due to the widespread adoption of genetically modified crops. As such, countries wishing to utilise transgenic technologies in the development of advanced agricultural products must have regulations in place coupled with trained personnel in national competent authorities able to contribute effectively to the decision-making process. Capacity building initiatives play an important role in supporting such individuals, institutions and governmental authorities by providing training and/or physical structures/equipment and technical assistance. There are many types of capacity building activities; however not all have the same relevance in different regions of the world. For capacity building to be effective, a strategic approach incorporating a variety of forms and disciplines is desired. This commentary discusses the importance of factors such as: the targeting of support to relevant beneficiary(ies); the identification of specific needs and the incorporation of socio-economic conditions when elaborating effective strategies designed to help building capacity. Moreover, the importance of interaction and collaboration amongst the various capacity builders is also discussed such that unnecessary duplication of efforts and best use of available human and economic resources results.
Pulses are the main source of protein and minerals in the vegetarian diet. These are primarily cultivated on marginal lands with few inputs in several resource-poor countries of the world, including several in South Asia. Their cultivation in resource-scarce conditions exposes them to various abiotic and biotic stresses, leading to significant yield losses. Furthermore, climate change due to global warming has increased their vulnerability to emerging new insect pests and abiotic stresses that can become even more serious in the coming years. The changing climate scenario has made it more challenging to breed and develop climate-resilient smart pulses. Although pulses are climate smart, as they simultaneously adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate change, their narrow genetic diversity has always been a major constraint to their improvement for adaptability. However, existing genetic diversity still provides opportunities to exploit novel attributes for developing climate-resilient cultivars. The mining and exploitation of adaptive traits imparting tolerance/resistance to climate-smart pulses can be accelerated further by using cutting-edge approaches of biotechnology such as transgenics, genome editing, and epigenetics. This review discusses various classical and molecular approaches and strategies to exploit adaptive traits for breeding climate-smart pulses.
Glyphosate (GLY) is the main ingredient in the weed killer Roundup and the most widely used pesticide in the world. Studies of the harmful effects of GLY on human health began to become more wide-ranging after 2015. GLY is listed by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) as a carcinogenic hazard to humans. Moreover, GLY has the property to complex with transition metals and are stable for long periods, being considered a high-risk element for different matrices, such as environmental (soil and water) and food (usually genetically modified crops). Since that, it was noticed an increment in the development of new analytical methods for its determination in different matrices like food, environmental and biological fluids. Noteworthy, the application of electrochemical techniques for downstream detection sparked interest due to the ability to minimize or eliminate the use of polluting chemicals, using simple and affordable equipment. This work aims to review the contribution of the electroanalytical methods for the determination of GLY in different food and environmental matrices. Parameters such as the electrochemical transduction techniques based on the electrical measurement signals, receptor materials for electrodes preparation, and the detection mechanisms are described in this review. The literature review shows that the electrochemical sensors are powerful detection system that can be improved by their design and by their portability to fulfil the needs of the GLY determination in laboratory benches, or even in situ analysis.
Artemisinin is a natural sesquiterpene lactone obtained from the Artemisia annua herb. It is widely used for the treatment of malaria. In this article, we have reviewed the role of artemisinin in controlling malaria, spread of resistance to artemisinin and the different methods used for its large scale production. The highest amount of artemisinin gene expression in tobacco leaf chloroplast leads to the production of 0.8 mg/g of the dry weight of the plant. This will revolutionize the treatment and control of malaria in third world countries. Furthermore, the generations of novel derivatives of artemisinin- and trioxane ring structure-inspired compounds are important for the treatment of malaria caused by resistant plasmodial species. Synthetic endoperoxide-like artefenomel and its derivatives are crucial for the control of malaria and such synthetic compounds should be further explored.
The increasing burden of the world's population on agriculture necessitates the development of more robust crops. As the amount of information from sequenced crop genomes increases, technology can be used to investigate the function of genes in detail and to design improved crops at the molecular level. Recently, an RNA-programmed genome-editing system composed of a clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-encoded guide RNA and the nuclease Cas9 has provided a powerful platform to achieve these goals. By combining versatile tools to study and modify plants at different molecular levels, the CRISPR/Cas9 system is paving the way towards a new horizon for basic research and crop development. In this review, the accomplishments, problems and improvements of this technology in plants, including target sequence cleavage, knock-in/gene replacement, transcriptional regulation, epigenetic modification, off-target effects, delivery system and potential applications, will be highlighted.
Climate change, food shortage, water scarcity, and population growth are some of the threatening challenges being faced in today's world. Drought stress (DS) poses a constant challenge for agricultural crops and has been considered a severe constraint for global agricultural productivity; its intensity and severity are predicted to increase in the near future. Legumes demonstrate high sensitivity to DS, especially at vegetative and reproductive stages. They are mostly grown in the dry areas and are moderately drought tolerant, but severe DS leads to remarkable production losses. The most prominent effects of DS are reduced germination, stunted growth, serious damage to the photosynthetic apparatus, decrease in net photosynthesis, and a reduction in nutrient uptake. To curb the catastrophic effect of DS in legumes, it is imperative to understand its effects, mechanisms, and the agronomic and genetic basis of drought for sustainable management. This review highlights the impact of DS on legumes, mechanisms, and proposes appropriate management approaches to alleviate the severity of water stress. In our discussion, we outline the influence of water stress on physiological aspects (such as germination, photosynthesis, water and nutrient uptake), growth parameters and yield. Additionally, mechanisms, various management strategies, for instance, agronomic practices (planting time and geometry, nutrient management), plant growth-promoting Rhizobacteria and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal inoculation, quantitative trait loci (QTLs), functional genomics and advanced strategies (CRISPR-Cas9) are also critically discussed. We propose that the integration of several approaches such as agronomic and biotechnological strategies as well as advanced genome editing tools is needed to develop drought-tolerant legume cultivars.
Glyphosate tolerant soybeans represent a large portion of soybeans grown and fed to farm animals around the world. Despite their widespread use for many years, some have raised questions regarding their safety because the soybeans were genetically modified. The CP4 EPSPS gene which imparts resistance to topical application of the herbicide glyphosate was introduced into soybeans. Application of glyphosate to soybean fields will reduce weed pressure and increase soybean yield. To assess their safety on the rat reproduction system, male Sprague Dawley rats were fed either glyphosate-tolerant (GM) soybean (40-3-2) or near-isogenic, non-GM (A5403) (control) soybean meal. The processed soybean meal was added to formulated rodent diets at 20% (w/w) and fed to rats for 90 days. Some rats from the control group were separately administered mitomycin C for 40 days and served as positive controls in the sperm abnormality test. Body weights and behavior were monitored daily, serum enzymes and histologic and EM appearance of the testis, and sperm morphology were also examined. After 90 days of feeding, no adverse effects were observed in rats fed glyphosate-tolerant soybeans.
Paraguay is integrated into the world mainly through its agricultural activity. The population's perception of genetically engineered crops is relevant to design communication strategies that convey the advantages and limitations of the various technologies used in the country. We aimed to know the perception of the population of four Departments of the country where such crops are grown through a survey, which revealed a low level of knowledge about genetically engineered crops in general, and specifically about the effects of genetically engineered crops on production, nutrition, and the environment. Respondents expressed a willingness to receive information on genetically engineered crops, in particular from the National Government and the Health Sector.
Agriculture biotechnology is a promising tool for developing varieties with enhanced quality and quantity. Transgenic proteins expressed by genetically modified (GM) food crops improve crop characteristics like nutritional value, taste, and texture, and endow plants with resistance against fungus, pests, and insects. Despite such potential benefits, there are concerns regarding possible adverse effects of GM crops on human health, animals and the environment. Among the proposed guidelines for GM food safety testing-the weight-of-evidence approach proposed by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (ALINORM 03/34A) is the most recent. Till date, several transgenic wheat lines have been developed and research is underway for further improvement. However, GM wheat is not being grown or consumed in any part of the world. In the present study, in silico tools were employed for safety testing of eight transgenes used for the development of transgenic wheat lines. Among the genes studied, none of them shared sequence homology with the reported allergens and may be safe for use in genetic engineering. In conclusion, gene selection for developing transgenic wheat lines should be done with utmost care to ensure its safety for feed and fodder.
The development and growth of tumors remains an important and ongoing threat to human life around the world. While advanced therapeutic strategies such as immune checkpoint therapy and CAR-T have achieved astonishing progress in the treatment of both solid and hematological malignancies, the malignant initiation and progression of cancer remains a controversial issue, and further research is urgently required. The experimental animal model not only has great advantages in simulating the occurrence, development, and malignant transformation mechanisms of tumors, but also can be used to evaluate the therapeutic effects of a diverse array of clinical interventions, gradually becoming an indispensable method for cancer research. In this paper, we have reviewed recent research progress in relation to mouse and rat models, focusing on spontaneous, induced, transgenic, and transplantable tumor models, to help guide the future study of malignant mechanisms and tumor prevention.
Plant viruses can cause devastating diseases in many crops around the world. Genetic resistance and the adoption of resistant crop cultivars is the most desirable strategy to manage viruses. Single or multiple sources of resistance derived from host and/or virus gene sequences are used to develop resistant crop plants. Pyramiding sources of resistance is essential for achieving broad-spectrum and durable resistance and for protecting crops from commonly occurring mixed virus infections. Stacking resistance-conferring gene sequences into single crop cultivars is achieved by first, conventional breeding and the use of dominant and recessive host genes; second, genetic engineering and the deployment of virus-derived gene sequences or modified small plant RNAs for antiviral RNA interference defense, or of programmable nucleases to target viral gene sequences or to alter host factors that are critical to complete the virus infection cycle; and third, a combination of conventional breeding and genetic engineering. These strategies are successfully used to mitigate the effect of viruses. It is anticipated that the development of virus resistant crops carrying multiple resistance-conferring gene sequences will be further facilitated by progress at unraveling underpinnings of virus-host interactions, and at determining the sequence of more crop genomes.
Precise genome engineering approaches could be perceived as a second paradigm for targeted trait improvement in crop plants, with the potential to overcome the constraints imposed by conventional CRISPR/Cas technology. The likelihood of reduced agricultural production due to highly turbulent climatic conditions increases as the global population expands. The second paradigm of stress-resilient crops with enhanced tolerance and increased productivity against various stresses is paramount to support global production and consumption equilibrium. Although traditional breeding approaches have substantially increased crop production and yield, effective strategies are anticipated to restore crop productivity even further in meeting the world's increasing food demands. CRISPR/Cas, which originated in prokaryotes, has surfaced as a coveted genome editing tool in recent decades, reshaping plant molecular biology in unprecedented ways and paving the way for engineering stress-tolerant crops. CRISPR/Cas is distinguished by its efficiency, high target specificity, and modularity, enables precise genetic modification of crop plants, allowing for the creation of allelic variations in the germplasm and the development of novel and more productive agricultural practices. Additionally, a slew of advanced biotechnologies premised on the CRISPR/Cas methodologies have augmented fundamental research and plant synthetic biology toolkits. Here, we describe gene editing tools, including CRISPR/Cas and its imitative tools, such as base and prime editing, multiplex genome editing, chromosome engineering followed by their implications in crop genetic improvement. Further, we comprehensively discuss the latest developments of CRISPR/Cas technology including CRISPR-mediated gene drive, tissue-specific genome editing, dCas9 mediated epigenetic modification and programmed self-elimination of transgenes in plants. Finally, we highlight the applicability and scope of advanced CRISPR-based techniques in crop genetic improvement.
Background:                       Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the most common malignant tumors in the world. The clinical benefit of anti-angiogenic strategy as a single drug is limited. Some studies showed that the combination of anti-angiogenic therapy and chemotherapy exhibited synergistic effect and reduced the side effects of chemotherapy drugs. We investigated the combined effects of these two types of drugs in gastric cancer cells in vitro and in vivo.                  Methods:                       cell viability, migration, invasion, and apoptosis were evaluated by CCK-8, wound-healing, transwell, and Annexin V-FITC/PI assay, respectively. In vivo anti-cancer efficacy was tested for the cell proliferation and metastasis in cell line derived tumor xenograft (CDX) model and patient derived tumor xenografted (PDX) model based on Tg (fli-1: EGFP) zebrafish embryos; RESULTS: In the cell experiments, the combination of the two types of drugs could inhibit the proliferation and metastasis of gastric cancer cells and promote apoptosis through VEGFR-2/AKT/ERK1/2 signal. In the zebrafish CDX (zCDX) model and zebrafish PDX (zPDX) model, the combination of the two treatment also showed a synergistic effect in inhibiting gastric cancer cell metastasis and cell proliferation.                  Conclusions:                       Apatinib/ramucirumab targeted therapy combined with docetaxel or 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) may serve as an effective treatment strategy for patients with advanced gastric cancer.
The fermentation of industrial bacteria encounters a serious problem in continuous culture, i.e. the production traits lose. However, current research on the mechanism of strain degeneration is not clear enough, and there are few methods to effectively control the degeneration. Under growth restriction, the mutation rate of fermentation strains increases. Many cellular processes and poor fermentation conditions can trigger the transposition of transposable elements, SOS response, and RpoS-controlled adaptive mutations, causing genetic instability. Genetic instability which resulted from point mutations and genomic rearrangements can be responsible for strain degeneration. This mini-review summarizes the degeneration phenomena and mechanisms in common industrial bacteria and highlights three mechanisms of strain degeneration, including the transposition of transposable elements, SOS response, and adaptive mutations. According to different mutation mechanisms, many promising strategies have been proposed to increase the stability and the yield of industrial strains, for example, developing platform strains free of insertion sequence to enhance the stability of recombinant plasmid, using SOS inhibitors to block the SOS response, and improving environmental tolerance capacity and fermentation conditions to reduce adaptive mutations.
The Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety is an international agreement (adopted on 29 January 2000 as a supplementary agreement to the Convention on Biological Diversity) that addresses the potential adverse effects of living modified organisms. It focuses primarily on transboundary movements and is therefore relevant to international trade. It includes provisions on import decision-making, risk assessment and management, information-sharing, documentation, capacity-building, compliance, liability and redress, public awareness and participation, and socio-economic considerations. Given the scope of the Protocol, there may be cases where trade in living modified organisms also falls under the mandate of existing international bodies such as the OIE (World Organisation for Animal Health) and other standard-setting bodies. There could therefore be benefits from collaboration between the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the World Organisation for Animal Health on issues such as risk assessment and management, information-sharing, documentation requirements, and procedures related to unintentional transboundary movements. This paper reviews the key provisions of the Protocol and attempts to highlight areas of the agreement which are also of interest to various international bodies, particularly the OIE.
This paper describes the background, principles, concepts and methods of framing the technical regulation for edible safety requirement and assessment of agricultural genetically modified organisms (agri-GMOs) for Shenzhen Special Economic Zone in the People's Republic of China. It provides a set of systematic criteria for edible safety requirements and the assessment process for agri-GMOs. First, focusing on the degree of risk and impact of different agri-GMOs, we developed hazard grades for toxicity, allergenicity, anti-nutrition effects, and unintended effects and standards for the impact type of genetic manipulation. Second, for assessing edible safety, we developed indexes and standards for different hazard grades of recipient organisms, for the influence of types of genetic manipulation and hazard grades of agri-GMOs. To evaluate the applicability of these criteria and their congruency with other safety assessment systems for GMOs applied by related organizations all over the world, we selected some agri-GMOs (soybean, maize, potato, capsicum and yeast) as cases to put through our new assessment system, and compared our results with the previous assessments. It turned out that the result of each of the cases was congruent with the original assessment.
The advent of genome editing has opened new avenues for targeted trait enhancement in fruit, ornamental, industrial, and all specialty crops. In particular, CRISPR-based editing systems, derived from bacterial immune systems, have quickly become routinely used tools for research groups across the world seeking to edit plant genomes with a greater level of precision, higher efficiency, reduced off-target effects, and overall ease-of-use compared to ZFNs and TALENs. CRISPR systems have been applied successfully to a number of horticultural and industrial crops to enhance fruit ripening, increase stress tolerance, modify plant architecture, control the timing of flower development, and enhance the accumulation of desired metabolites, among other commercially-important traits. As editing technologies continue to advance, so too does the ability to generate improved crop varieties with non-transgenic modifications; in some crops, direct transgene-free edits have already been achieved, while in others, T-DNAs have successfully been segregated out through crossing. In addition to the potential to produce non-transgenic edited crops, and thereby circumvent regulatory impediments to the release of new, improved crop varieties, targeted gene editing can speed up trait improvement in crops with long juvenile phases, reducing inputs resulting in faster market introduction to the market. While many challenges remain regarding optimization of genome editing in ornamental, fruit, and industrial crops, the ongoing discovery of novel nucleases with niche specialties for engineering applications may form the basis for additional and potentially crop-specific editing strategies.
Helicoverpa armigera is a major pest of agriculture, horticulture and floriculture throughout the Old World and recently invaded parts of the New World. We overview of the evolution in thinking about the application of area-wide approaches to assist with its control by the Australian Cotton Industry to highlight important lessons and future challenges to achieving the same in the New World. An over-reliance of broad-spectrum insecticides led to Helicoverpa spp. in Australian cotton rapidly became resistant to DDT, synthetic pyrethroids, organophosphates, carbamates and endosulfan. Voluntary strategies were developed to slow the development of insecticide resistance, which included rotating chemistries and basing spray decisions on thresholds. Despite adoption of these practices, insecticide resistance continued to develop until the introduction of genetically modified cotton provided a platform for augmenting Integrated Pest Management in the Australian cotton industry. Compliance with mandatory resistance management plans for Bt cotton necessitated a shift from pest control at the level of individual fields or farms towards a coordinated area-wide landscape approach. Our take-home message for control of H. armigera is that resistance management is essential in genetically modified crops and must be season long and area-wide to be effective. © 2016 Society of Chemical Industry.
Sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum), a sugar crop commonly grown for sugar production all over the world, is susceptible to several insect pests attack in addition to bacterial, fungal and viral infections leading to substantial reductions in its yield. The complex genetic makeup and lack of resistant genes in genome of sugarcane have made the conventional breeding a difficult and challenging task for breeders. Using pesticides for control of the attacking insects can harm beneficial insects, human and other animals and the environment as well. As alternative and effective strategy for control of insect pests, genetic engineering has been applied for overexpression of cry proteins, vegetative insecticidal proteins (vip), lectins and proteinase inhibitors (PI). In addition, the latest biotechnological tools such as host-induced gene silencing (HIGS) and CRISPR/Cas9 can be employed for sustainable control of insect pests in sugarcane. In this review overexpression of the cry, vip, lectins and PI genes in transgenic sugarcane and their disease resistance potential is described.
Micronutrient deficiencies have been identified as major public health problems affecting a large part of the world's population. Biofortification of staple crops like maize has been proposed as one of the most cost effective and feasible approaches to combat micronutrient deficiencies. Studies have shown that provitamin A from biofortified crops is highly bioavailable and has the capacity to improve vitamin A status of vulnerable groups. Most people in sub-Saharan Africa subsist on maize and many people may benefit from consumption of provitamin A carotenoid biofortified maize, especially women and children. With the exception of transgenic golden rice, biofortified crops have received considerable acceptance by most communities. Negative perceptions associated with yellow maize do not affect orange maize, which is, for example, well-liked in rural Zambia. With proper policy frameworks and full commercialization, provitamin A maize can address the problem of vitamin A deficiencies among poor nations with maize-based diets.
Plant pathogens are a significant challenge in agriculture despite our best efforts to combat them. One of the most effective and sustainable ways to manage plant pathogens is to use genetic modification (GM) and genome editing, expanding the breeder's toolkit. For use in the field, these solutions must be efficacious, with no negative effect on plant agronomy, and deployed thoughtfully. They must also not introduce a potential allergen or toxin. Expensive regulation of biotech crops is prohibitive for local solutions. With 11-30% average global yield losses and greater local impacts, tackling plant pathogens is an ethical imperative. We need to increase world food production by at least 60% using the same amount of land, by 2050. The time to act is now and we cannot afford to ignore the new solutions that GM provides to manage plant pathogens.
Herbicide-tolerant (HT) varieties of corn, soybean, canola (oilseed rape) and cotton have been grown since the mid-1990s, and have been widely adopted by farmers in several countries. HT genes have been inserted into or selected for in many other species, including almost all major crop species in the world and many minor crops and ornamental species. In some cases this has been done specifically to introduce the HT trait, whereas in others the HT gene has been used as a selectable marker (eg the bar gene, conferring glufosinate-ammonium tolerance). However, in very few cases have the HT crops generated been commercialized, despite the weed-control advantages that many such crops would offer. There are several reasons for this, including the high research and development costs associated with developing the new HT crop cultivars, the high cost of obtaining regulatory clearance for the HT crops or products derived from them, international trade issues relating to genetically modified crops, and issues surrounding the expanded herbicide registration for the new use and the potential impact of this on the existing registration status of the herbicide. New HT crops are unlikely to be developed unless they offer a sufficiently large advantage to farmers and a substantial assured market to justify the associated development and regulatory costs.
Plant-parasitic nematodes cause major agricultural losses worldwide. Examining the molecular mechanisms underlying plant-nematode interactions and how plants respond to different invading pathogens is attracting major attention to reduce the expanding gap between agricultural production and the needs of the growing world population. This review summarizes the most recent developments in plant-nematode interactions and the diverse approaches used to improve plant resistance against root knot nematode (RKN). We will emphasize the recent rapid advances in genome sequencing technologies, small interfering RNA techniques (RNAi) and targeted genome editing which are contributing to the significant progress in understanding the plant-nematode interaction mechanisms. Also, molecular approaches to improve plant resistance against nematodes are considered.
The process through induction, proliferation and regeneration of protocorm-like bodies (PLBs) is one of the most advantageous methods for mass propagation of orchids which applied to the world floricultural market. In addition, this method has been used as a tool to identify genes of interest associated with the production of PLBs, and also in breeding techniques that use biotechnology to produce new cultivars, such as to obtain transgenic plants. Most of the molecular studies developed have used model plants as species of Phalaenopsis, and interestingly, despite similarities to somatic embryogenesis, some molecular differences do not yet allow to characterize that PLB induction is in fact a type of somatic embryogenesis. Despite the importance of species for conservation and collection purposes, the flower market is supported by hybrid cultivars, usually polyploid, which makes more detailed molecular evaluations difficult. Studies on the effect of plant growth regulators on induction, proliferation, and regeneration of PLBs are the most numerous. However, studies of other factors and new technologies affecting PLB production such as the use of temporary immersion bioreactors and the use of lighting-emitting diodes have emerged as new tools for advancing the technique with increasing PLB production efficiency. In addition, recent studies on Phalaenopsis equestris genome sequencing have enabled more detailed molecular studies and the molecular characterization of plantlets obtained from this technique currently allow the technique to be evaluated in a more comprehensive way regarding its real applications and main limitations aiming at mass propagation, such as somaclonal variation.
At the time of the first Transgenic Animal Research Conference, the lack of knowledge about promoter, enhancer and coding regions of genes of interest greatly hampered our efforts to create transgenes that would express appropriately in livestock. Additionally, we were limited to gene insertion by pronuclear microinjection. As predicted then, widespread genome sequencing efforts and technological advancements have profoundly altered what we can do. There have been many developments in technology to create transgenic animals since we first met at Granlibakken in 1997, including the advent of somatic cell nuclear transfer-based cloning and gene editing. We can now create new transgenes that will express when and where we want and can target precisely in the genome where we want to make a change or insert a transgene. With the large number of sequenced genomes, we have unprecedented access to sequence information including, control regions, coding regions, and known allelic variants. These technological developments have ushered in new and renewed enthusiasm for the production of transgenic animals among scientists and animal agriculturalists around the world, both for the production of more relevant biomedical research models as well as for agricultural applications. However, even though great advancements have been made in our ability to control gene expression and target genetic changes in our animals, there still are no genetically engineered animal products on the market for food. World-wide there has been a failure of the regulatory processes to effectively move forward. Estimates suggest the world will need to increase our current food production 70 % by 2050; that is we will have to produce the total amount of food each year that has been consumed by mankind over the past 500 years. The combination of transgenic animal technology and gene editing will become increasingly more important tools to help feed the world. However, to date the practical benefits of these technologies have not yet reached consumers in any country and in the absence of predictable, science-based regulatory programs it is unlikely that the benefits will be realized in the short to medium term.
Microorganisms (viruses, bacteria and fungi) or their bioactive agents can be used as active substances and therefore are referred as Microbial Pest Control Agents (MPCA). They are used as alternative strategies to chemical insecticides to counteract the development of resistances and to reduce adverse effects on both environment and human health. These natural entomopathogenic agents, which have specific modes of action, are generally considered safer as compared to conventional chemical insecticides. Baculoviruses are the only viruses being used as the safest biological control agents. They infect insects and have narrow host ranges. Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) is the most widely and successfully used bioinsecticide in the integrated pest management programs in the world. Bt mainly produces crystal delta-endotoxins and secreted toxins. However, the Bt toxins are not stable for a very long time and are highly sensitive to solar UV. So genetically modified plants that express toxins have been developed and represent a large part of the phytosanitary biological products. Finally, entomopathogenic fungi and particularly, Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium anisopliae, are also used for their insecticidal properties. Most studies on various aspects of the safety of MPCA to human, non-target organisms and environment have only reported acute but not chronic toxicity. This paper reviews the modes of action of MPCA, their toxicological risks to human health and ecotoxicological profiles together with their environmental persistence. This review is part of the special issue "Insecticide Mode of Action: From Insect to Mammalian Toxicity".
This article analyzes all of the food safety-related aspects related to the use of genetically modified organisms into agriculture and food. A discussion is provided as to the uncertainties related to the insertion of foreign genes into organisms, providing examples of unforeseen, undesirable effects and of instabilities of the organisms thus artificially fabricated. Data is then provided from both official agencies as well as existing literature questioning the accuracy and reliability of the risk analyses as to these organisms being harmless to health and discusses the almost total lack of scientific studies analyzing the health safety/dangerousness of transgenic foods. Given all these unknowns, other factors must be taken into account, particularly genetic contamination of the non-genetically modified crops, which is now starting to become widespread in some parts of the world. Not being able of reversing the situation in the even of problems is irresponsible. Other major aspects are the impacts on the environment (such as insects building up resistances, the loss of biodiversity, the increase in chemical products employed) with indirect repercussions on health and/or future food production. Lastly, thoughts for discussion are added concerning food safety in terms of food availability and food sovereignty, given that the transgenic seed and related agrochemicals market is currently cornered by five large-scale transnational companies. The conclusion entails an analysis of biotechnological agriculture's contribution to sustainability.
Salinization is a worldwide environmental problem, which is negatively impacting crop yield and thus posing a threat to the world's food security. Considering the rising threat of salinity, it is need of time, to understand the salt tolerant mechanism in plants and find avenues for the development of salinity resistant plants. Several plants tolerate salinity in a different manner, thereby halophytes and glycophytes evolved altered mechanisms to counter the stress. Therefore, in this review article, physiological, metabolic, and molecular aspects of the plant adaptation to salt stress have been discussed. The conventional breeding techniques for developing salt tolerant plants has not been much successful, due to its multigenic trait. The inflow of data from plant sequencing projects and annotation of genes led to the identification of many putative genes having a role in salt stress. The bioinformatics tools provided preliminary information and were helpful for making salt stress-specific databases. The microRNA identification and characterization led to unraveling the finer intricacies of the network. The transgenic approach finally paved a way for overexpressing some important genes viz. DREB, MYB, COMT, SOS, PKE, NHX, etc. conferred salt stress tolerance. In this review, we tried to show the effect of salinity on plants, considering ion homeostasis, antioxidant defense response, proteins involved, possible utilization of transgenic plants, and bioinformatics for coping with this stress factor. An overview of previous studies related to salt stress is presented in order to assist researchers in providing a potential solution for this increasing environmental threat.
Kidney diseases are important causes of mortality world widely. Renal microvascular dysfunction plays a pivotal role in the development of kidney diseases. Pharmacological and biochemical tools have been used to conduct detailed studies on the metabolization of arachidonic acid by cytochrome P450 (CYP450) in renal microvasculature. CYP450 epoxygenase metabolites epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs) are mainly produced in renal microvessels. EETs exhibit renoprotective effects through vasodilation, anti-hypertension, anti-apoptosis and anti-inflammation, and were reported as therapeutic targets of renal diseases. However, the ability of the kidney in generating EETs is reduced in renal diseases. Recently, the studies from transgenic animal overexpressing CYP450 epoxygenases and application of soluble epoxide hydrolase inhibitors revealed that increasing of EETs exhibits renoprotective effects in vivo. The present review focuses on the protective mechanisms of EETs in kidney physiology and diseases.
With 20% of the world's population but just 7% of the arable land, China has invested heavily in crop biotechnology to increase agricultural productivity. We examine research on insect-resistant genetically engineered (IRGE) crops in China, including strategies to promote their sustainable use. IRGE cotton, rice, and corn lines have been developed and proven efficacious for controlling lepidopteran crop pests. Ecological impact studies have demonstrated conservation of natural enemies of crop pests and halo suppression of crop-pest populations on a local scale. Economic, social, and human health effects are largely positive and, in the case of Bt cotton, have proven sustainable over 20 years of commercial production. Wider adoption of IRGE crops in China is constrained by relatively limited innovation capacity, public misperception, and regulatory inaction, suggesting the need for further financial investment in innovation and greater scientific engagement with the public. The Chinese experience with Bt cotton might inform adoption of other Bt crops in China and other developing countries.
Artemisinin and its analogues are naturally occurring most effective antimalarial secondary metabolites. These compounds also possess activity against various types of cancer cells, schistosomiasis, and some viral diseases. Artemisinin and its derivatives (A&D) are found in very low amounts in the only natural source i.e. Artemisia plant. To meet the global needs, plant sources have been exploited for the enhanced production of these natural products because their chemical synthesis is not profitable. The generally adopted approaches include non-transgenic (tissue and cell cultures) and transgenic together with the cell, tissue, and whole transgenic plant cultures. The genes targeted for the overproduction of A&D include the biosynthetic pathway genes, trichome development genes and rol genes, etc. Artemisinin is naturally produced in trichomes of leaves. At the same time, transgenic hairy roots are considered a good source to harvest artemisinin. However, the absence of trichomes in hairy roots suggests that artemisinin biosynthesis is not limited to trichomes. Moreover, the expression of the gene involved in trichome development and sesquiterpenoid biosynthesis (TFAR1) in transgenic and non-transgenic roots provokes researchers to look for new insight of artemisinin biosynthesis. Here we discuss and review precisely the various biotechnological approaches for the enhanced biosynthesis of A&D.
Introduction:                       Agriculture based on genetically modified organisms plays an increasingly important role in feeding the world population, which is evidenced by a considerable growth in the size of land under genetically modified crops (GM). Uncertainty and controversy around GM products are mainly due to the lack of accurate and reliable information, and lack of knowledge concerning the essence of genetic modifications, and the effect of GM food on the human organism, and consequently, a negative emotional attitude towards what is unknown.                  Objective:                       The objective of the presented study was to discover to what extent knowledge and the emotional attitude of adolescents towards genetically modified organisms is related with acceptance of growing genetically modified plants or breeding GM animals on own farm or allotment garden, and the purchase and consumption of GM food, as well as the use of GMOs in medicine.                  Materials and method:                       The study was conducted by the method of a diagnostic survey using a questionnaire designed by the author, which covered a group of 500 adolescents completing secondary school on the level of maturity examination. The collected material was subjected to statistical analysis. Research hypotheses were verified using chi-square test (χ 2 ), t-Student test, and stepwise regression analysis.                  Results:                       Stepwise regression analysis showed that the readiness of adolescents to use genetically modified organisms as food or for the production of pharmaceuticals, the production of GM plants or animals on own farm, depends on an emotional-evaluative attitude towards GMOs, and the level of knowledge concerning the essence of genetic modifications.
The world health organisation has declared neurological disorders as one of the greatest public health risks in the world today. Yet, despite this growing concern, the mechanisms underpinning many of these conditions are still poorly understood. This may in part be due to the seemingly diverse nature of the initiating insults ranging from genetic (such as the Ataxia's and Lysosomal storage disorders) through to protein misfolding and aggregation (i.e. Prions), and those of a predominantly unknown aetiology (i.e. Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease). However, efforts to elucidate mechanistic regulation are also likely to be hampered because of the complexity of the human nervous system, the apparent selective regional vulnerability and differential degenerative progression. The key to elucidating these aetiologies is determining the regional molecular cascades, which are occurring from the early through to terminal stages of disease progression. Whilst much molecular data have been captured at the end stage of disease from post-mortem analysis in humans, the very early stages of disease are often conspicuously asymptomatic, and even if they were not, repeated sampling from multiple brain regions of "affected" patients and "controls" is neither ethical nor possible. Model systems therefore become fundamental for elucidating the mechanisms governing these complex neurodegenerative conditions. However, finding a model that precisely mimics the human condition can be challenging and expensive. Whilst cellular and invertebrate models are frequently used in neurodegenerative research and have undoubtedly yielded much useful data, the comparatively simplistic nature of these systems makes insights gained from such a stand alone model limited when it comes to translation. Given the recent advances in gene editing technology, the options for novel model generation in higher order species have opened up new and exciting possibilities for the field. In this review, we therefore explain some of the reasons why larger animal models often appear to give a more robust recapitulation of human neurological disorders and why they may be a critical stepping stone for effective therapeutic translation.
In recent years, transgenic technology has been widely applied in many fields. There is concern about the safety of genetically modified (GM) products with the increased prevalence of GM products. In order to prevent mastitis in dairy cows, our group produced transgenic cattle expressing human beta-defensin-3 (HBD3) in their mammary glands, which confers resistance to the bacteria that cause mastitis. The milk derived from these transgenic cattle thus contained HBD3. The objective of the present study was to analyze the nutritional composition of HBD3 milk and conduct a 90-day feeding study on rats. Rats were divided into 5 groups which consumed either an AIN93G diet (growth purified diet for rodents recommended by the American Institute of Nutrition) with the addition of 10% or 30% HBD3 milk, an AIN93G diet with the addition of 10% or 30% conventional milk, or an AIN93G diet alone. The results showed that there was no difference in the nutritional composition of HBD3 and conventional milk. Furthermore, body weight, food consumption, blood biochemistry, relative organ weight, and histopathology were normal in those rats that consumed diets containing HBD3. No adverse effects were observed between groups that could be attributed to varying diets or gender.
The endoperoxide sesquiterpene lactone artemisinin which is isolated from the plant Artemisia annua, and its semi-synthetic derivatives, are potent, novel, antimalarial drugs. They are effective against multidrug-resistant Plasmodium strains and have become essential components of the so-called Artemisinin-based Combination Therapy, that is recommended by the World Health Organization as the treatment of choice for malaria tropica. Moreover, artemisinin and its derivatives show additional anti-parasite, antitumor, and anti-viral properties. The plants, however, are very poor resources for the drug, as the content of artemisinin is low (from 0,1 to 1,5 % of dried leaves) and dependent on seasonal and somatic variations as well as the infestation of bacteria, fungi and insects. A chemical synthesis of the compound is complex and uneconomic. Therefore, artemisinin is in short supply and remains unaffordable for most people in malaria-endemic countries. Thus, many researchers have focused on enhancing the production of artemisinin, first, through traditional breeding and in in vitro plant tissue cultures and, then, by heterologous expression systems (a semi-synthetic approach) with the use of genetically-modified or transgenic microbes. In this review, we summarize the progress made in the production of artemisinin by the biotechnological approach.
Alcohol is the most commonly abused legal substance and alcoholism is a serious public health problem. It is a leading cause of preventable death in the world. The cellular and molecular mechanisms of alcohol reward and addiction are still not well understood. Emerging evidence indicates that unlike other drugs of abuse, such as nicotine, cocaine, or opioids, alcohol targets numerous channel proteins, receptor molecules, and signaling pathways in the brain. Previously, research has identified brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), a heterogeneous family of pentameric ligand-gated cation channels expressed in the mammalian brain, as critical molecular targets for alcohol abuse and dependence. Genetic variations encoding nAChR subunits have been shown to increase the vulnerability to develop alcohol dependence. Here, we review recent insights into the rewarding effects of alcohol, as they pertain to different nAChR subtypes, associated signaling molecules, and pathways that contribute to the molecular mechanisms of alcoholism and/or comorbid brain disorders. Understanding these cellular changes and molecular underpinnings may be useful for the advancement of brain nicotinic-cholinergic mechanisms, and will lead to a better translational and therapeutic outcome for alcoholism and/or comorbid conditions.
Background:                       Growing world population and continuous disease emergence have invited the development of more efficient new vaccines against a range of diseases. Conventional vaccines are being wildly used in the world but their production requires higher cost, more time and better infrastructure. Thus, the idea of plant-based edible vaccine technology has emerged and showed promising results with strong and effective protection against many diseases. Plants have been utilized since more than two decades as pharmaceuticals against many diseases.                  Methods:                       Plant-based technology has great potential to express genes and produce clinically important compounds in the desired tissue. Plant biotechnology has played important role in the production of pharmaceutical compounds like vaccines, antibodies, antigens, sub-units, growth hormones and enzymes by utilizing genetic modification. It has also been opened a new approach for developing an edible vaccine as an oral delivery.                  Results:                       Edible vaccines have been shown to induce both mucosal as well as systemic immunity. Currently, many pharmaceuticals proteins as an edible vaccine have been developed in different plant expression systems and evaluated against various life-threatening diseases and some of them have reached advanced phase of the clinical trial and exhibited promising results.                  Conclusion:                       In this review, we have discussed about the molecular pharming, edible vaccines, plant base technology and current status of developed edible vaccines in the different plant tissue expression system, mechanism of action and clinical applications with clinical trials stage, significance, requirements, advantage and disadvantage of edible vaccines.
Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is the major staple food consumed by half of the world's population. Rice seeds have gained recent attention as bioreactors for the production of human pharmaceuticals such as therapeutic proteins or peptides. Rice seed production platforms have many advantages over animal cell or microbe systems in terms of cost-effectiveness, scalability, safety, product stability and productivity. Rice seed-based human pharmaceuticals are expected to become innovative therapies as edible drugs. Therapeutic proteins can be sequestered within natural cellular compartments in rice seeds and protected from harsh gastrointestinal environments. This review presents the state-of-the-art on the construction of gene cassettes for accumulation of pharmaceutical proteins or peptides in rice seeds, the generation of transgenic rice plants, and challenges involved in the use of rice seeds to produce human pharmaceuticals.
Disease prevention is essential to the continued development of aquaculture around the world. Vaccination is the most effective method of combating disease and currently there are a number of vaccines commercially available for use in fish. The majority of aquatic vaccines are delivered by injection, which is by far the most effective method when compared to oral or immersion deliveries. However it is labor intensive, costly and not feasible for large numbers of fish under 20 g. Attempts to develop novel oral and immersion delivery methods have resulted in varying degrees of success but may have great potential for the future.
Genome or gene editing includes several new techniques to help scientists precisely modify genome sequences. The techniques also enables us to alter the regulation of gene expression patterns in a pre-determined region and facilitates novel insights into the functional genomics of an organism. Emergence of genome editing has brought considerable excitement especially among agricultural scientists because of its simplicity, precision and power as it offers new opportunities to develop improved crop varieties with clear-cut addition of valuable traits or removal of undesirable traits. Research is underway to improve crop varieties with higher yields, strengthen stress tolerance, disease and pest resistance, decrease input costs, and increase nutritional value. Genome editing encompasses a wide variety of tools using either a site-specific recombinase (SSR) or a site-specific nuclease (SSN) system. Both systems require recognition of a known sequence. The SSN system generates single or double strand DNA breaks and activates endogenous DNA repair pathways. SSR technology, such as Cre/loxP and Flp/FRT mediated systems, are able to knockdown or knock-in genes in the genome of eukaryotes, depending on the orientation of the specific sites (loxP, FLP, etc.) flanking the target site. There are 4 main classes of SSN developed to cleave genomic sequences, mega-nucleases (homing endonuclease), zinc finger nucleases (ZFNs), transcriptional activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs), and the CRISPR/Cas nuclease system (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat/CRISPR-associated protein). The recombinase mediated genome engineering depends on recombinase (sub-) family and target-site and induces high frequencies of homologous recombination. Improving crops with gene editing provides a range of options: by altering only a few nucleotides from billions found in the genomes of living cells, altering the full allele or by inserting a new gene in a targeted region of the genome. Due to its precision, gene editing is more precise than either conventional crop breeding methods or standard genetic engineering methods. Thus this technology is a very powerful tool that can be used toward securing the world's food supply. In addition to improving the nutritional value of crops, it is the most effective way to produce crops that can resist pests and thrive in tough climates. There are 3 types of modifications produced by genome editing; Type I includes altering a few nucleotides, Type II involves replacing an allele with a pre-existing one and Type III allows for the insertion of new gene(s) in predetermined regions in the genome. Because most genome-editing techniques can leave behind traces of DNA alterations evident in a small number of nucleotides, crops created through gene editing could avoid the stringent regulation procedures commonly associated with GM crop development. For this reason many scientists believe plants improved with the more precise gene editing techniques will be more acceptable to the public than transgenic plants. With genome editing comes the promise of new crops being developed more rapidly with a very low risk of off-target effects. It can be performed in any laboratory with any crop, even those that have complex genomes and are not easily bred using conventional methods.
Plant-produced vaccines and therapeutic agents offer enormous potential for providing relief to developing countries by reducing the incidence of infant mortality caused by infectious diseases. Vaccines derived from plants have been demonstrated to effectively elicit an immune response. Biopharmaceuticals produced in plants are inexpensive to produce, require fewer expensive purification steps, and can be stored at ambient temperatures for prolonged periods of time. As a result, plant-produced biopharmaceuticals have the potential to be more accessible to the rural poor. This review describes current progress with respect to plant-produced biopharmaceuticals, with a particular emphasis on those that target developing countries. Specific emphasis is given to recent research on the production of plant-produced vaccines toward human immunodeficiency virus, malaria, tuberculosis, hepatitis B virus, Ebola virus, human papillomavirus, rabies virus and common diarrheal diseases. Production platforms used to express vaccines in plants, including nuclear and chloroplast transformation, and the use of viral expression vectors, are described in this review. The review concludes by outlining the next steps for plant-produced vaccines to achieve their goal of providing safe, efficacious and inexpensive vaccines to the developing world.
Most of the genetically modified (GM) plants currently commercialized encompass a handful of crop species (soybean, corn, cotton and canola) with agronomic characters (traits) directed against some biotic stresses (pest resistance, herbicide tolerance or both) and created by multinational companies. The same crops with agronomic traits already on the market today will continue to be commercialized, but there will be also a wider range of species with combined traits. The timeframe anticipated for market release of the next biotech plants will not only depend on science progress in research and development (R&D) in laboratories and fields, but also primarily on how demanding regulatory requirements are in countries where marketing approvals are pending. Regulatory constraints, including environmental and health impact assessments, have increased significantly in the past decades, delaying approvals and increasing their costs. This has sometimes discouraged public research entities and small and medium size plant breeding companies from using biotechnology and given preference to other technologies, not as stringently regulated. Nevertheless, R&D programs are flourishing in developing countries, boosted by the necessity to meet the global challenges that are food security of a booming world population while mitigating climate change impacts. Biotechnology is an instrument at the service of these imperatives and a wide variety of plants are currently tested for their high yield despite biotic and abiotic stresses. Many plants with higher water or nitrogen use efficiency, tolerant to cold, salinity or water submergence are being developed. Food security is not only a question of quantity but also of quality of agricultural and food products, to be available and accessible for the ones who need it the most. Many biotech plants (especially staple food) are therefore being developed with nutritional traits, such as biofortification in vitamins and metals. The main international seed companies continue to be the largest investors in plant biotechnology R&D, and often collaborate in the developing world with public institutions, private entities and philanthropic organizations. These partnerships are particularly present in Africa. In developed countries, plant biotechnology is also used for non-food purposes, such as the pharmaceutical, biofuel, starch, paper and textile industries. For example, plants are modified to specifically produce molecules with therapeutic uses, or with an improved biomass conversion efficiency, or producing larger volumes of feedstocks for biofuels. Various plant breeding technologies are now used in the entire spectrum of plant biotechnology: transgenesis producing proteins or RNAi. Cisgenesis (transgenes isolated from a crossable donor plant) and intragenesis (transgenes originate from the same species or a crossable species), null segregants are also used. To date, the next generation precision gene editing tools are developed in basic research. They include: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR), oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis (ODM), transcription activator-like effects nucleases (TALENs) and zinc-finger nuclease (ZFN).
Over the past decades, numerous efforts were made towards the improvement of cereal crops mostly employing traditional or molecular breeding approaches. The current scenario made it possible to efficiently explore molecular understanding by targeting different genes to achieve desirable plants. To provide guaranteed food security for the rising world population particularly under vulnerable climatic condition, development of high yielding stress tolerant crops is needed. In this regard, technologies upgradation in the field of genome editing looks promising. Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/Cas9 is a rapidly growing genome editing technique being effectively applied in different organisms, that includes both model and crop plants. In recent times CRISPR/Cas9 is being considered as a technology which revolutionized fundamental as well as applied research in plant breeding. Genome editing using CRISPR/Cas9 system has been successfully demonstrated in many cereal crops including rice, wheat, maize, and barley. Availability of whole genome sequence information for number of crops along with the advancement in genome-editing techniques provides several possibilities to achieve desirable traits. In this review, the options available for crop improvement by implementing CRISPR/Cas9 based genome-editing techniques with special emphasis on cereal crops have been summarized. Recent advances providing opportunities to simultaneously edit many target genes were also discussed. The review also addressed recent advancements enabling precise base editing and gene expression modifications. In addition, the article also highlighted limitations such as transformation efficiency, specific promoters and most importantly the ethical and regulatory issues related to commercial release of novel crop varieties developed through genome editing.
Meeting the food demands and ensuring nutritional security of the ever increasing global population in the face of degrading natural resource base and impending climate change is the biggest challenge of the twenty first century. The consequences of mineral/micronutrient deficiencies or the hidden hunger in the developing world are indeed alarming and need urgent attention. In addressing the problems associated with mineral/micronutrient deficiency, grain legumes as an integral component of the farming systems in the developing world have to play a crucial role. For resource-poor populations, a strategy based on selecting and/or developing grain legume cultivars with grains denser in micronutrients, by biofortification, seems the most appropriate and attractive approach to address the problem. This is evident from the on-going global research efforts on biofortification to provide nutrient-dense grains for use by the poorest of the poor in the developing countries. Towards this end, rapidly growing genomics technologies hold promise to hasten the progress of breeding nutritious legume crops. In conjunction with the myriad of expansions in genomics, advances in other 'omics' technologies particularly plant ionomics or ionome profiling open up novel opportunities to comprehensively examine the elemental composition and mineral networks of an organism in a rapid and cost-effective manner. These emerging technologies would effectively guide the scientific community to enrich the edible parts of grain legumes with bio-available minerals and enhancers/promoters. We believe that the application of these new-generation tools in turn would provide crop-based solutions to hidden hunger worldwide for achieving global nutritional security.
Nanotechnology is a broad interdisciplinary area of research, development, and industrial activity that has been growing rapidly worldwide for the past decade. More ambitious uses of nanoparticles are bioremediation of contaminated environments, controlled release of fragrances, biocides, and antifungals on textiles. Silica nanocomposites have received much attention because of its thermal degradation behavior and applications in chromatography, medicine, optics, etc. Nanobiotech takes agriculture from the battleground of genetically modified organisms to the brave new world of atomically modified organisms where rice has been modified atomically. Silica has been widely applied in various industries. Application of gold-coated silica has been used in the treatment for benign and malignant tumor. Surface-modified hydrophobic as well as lipophilic nanosilica could be effectively used as novel drugs for treatment of chicken malaria and nuclear polyhedrosis virus (BmNPV), a scourge in silkworm industry. Here, the authors attempt to provide a review to explain the impact of nanosilica on basic biology, medicine, agro-nanoproducts, and use of amorphous nanosilica as biopesticide.
Macro- and micronutrients, essential for the maintenance of human metabolism, are assimilated daily through the diet. Wheat and other major cereals are a good source of nutrients, such as carbohydrates and proteins, but cannot supply a sufficient amount of essential micronutrients, including provitamin A. As vitamin A deficiency (VAD) leads to several serious diseases throughout the world, the biofortification of a major staple crop, such as wheat, represents an effective way to preserve human health in developing countries. In the present work, a key enzyme involved in the branch of carotenoids pathway producing β-carotene, lycopene epsilon cyclase, has been targeted by a Targeting Induced Local Lesions in Genomes (TILLING) approach in a "block strategy" perspective. The null mutant genotype showed a strong reduction in the expression of the lcyE gene and also interesting pleiotropic effects on an enzyme (β-ring hydroxylase) acting downstream in the pathway. Biochemical profiling of carotenoids in the wheat mutant lines showed an increase of roughly 75% in β-carotene in the grains of the complete mutant line compared with the control. In conclusion, we describe here the production and characterization of a new wheat line biofortified with provitamin A obtained through a nontransgenic approach, which also sheds new light on the molecular mechanism governing carotenoid biosynthesis in durum wheat.
We present for the first time a comparative analysis of blood and organ system data from trials with rats fed three main commercialized genetically modified (GM) maize (NK 603, MON 810, MON 863), which are present in food and feed in the world. NK 603 has been modified to be tolerant to the broad spectrum herbicide Roundup and thus contains residues of this formulation. MON 810 and MON 863 are engineered to synthesize two different Bt toxins used as insecticides. Approximately 60 different biochemical parameters were classified per organ and measured in serum and urine after 5 and 14 weeks of feeding. GM maize-fed rats were compared first to their respective isogenic or parental non-GM equivalent control groups. This was followed by comparison to six reference groups, which had consumed various other non-GM maize varieties. We applied nonparametric methods, including multiple pairwise comparisons with a False Discovery Rate approach. Principal Component Analysis allowed the investigation of scattering of different factors (sex, weeks of feeding, diet, dose and group). Our analysis clearly reveals for the 3 GMOs new side effects linked with GM maize consumption, which were sex- and often dose-dependent. Effects were mostly associated with the kidney and liver, the dietary detoxifying organs, although different between the 3 GMOs. Other effects were also noticed in the heart, adrenal glands, spleen and haematopoietic system. We conclude that these data highlight signs of hepatorenal toxicity, possibly due to the new pesticides specific to each GM corn. In addition, unintended direct or indirect metabolic consequences of the genetic modification cannot be excluded.
From the first insect-resistant genetically modified (IRGM) rice transformation in 1989 in China to October 2009 when the Chinese Ministry of Agriculture issued biosafety certificates for commercial production of two cry1Ab/Ac Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) lines, China made a great leap forward from IRGM rice basic research to potential commercialization of the world's first IRGM rice. Research has been conducted on developing IRGM rice, assessing its environmental and food safety impacts, and evaluating its socioeconomic consequences. Laboratory and field tests have confirmed that these two Bt rice lines can provide effective and economic control of the lepidopteran complex on rice with less risk to the environment than present practices. Commercializing these Bt plants, while developing other GM plants that address the broader complex of insects and other pests, will need to be done within a comprehensive integrated pest management program to ensure the food security of China and the world.
Biotechnology applications such as the use and production of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) have been widely promoted, adopted, and employed by agricultural producers throughout the world. Yet, little research exists that examines the implications of agricultural biotechnology on the health and safety of workers involved in agricultural production and processing. Regulatory frameworks do exist to examine key issues related to food safety and environmental protection in GMO applications. However, based on the lack of research and regulatory oversight, it would appear that the potential impact on the safety and health of workers is of limited interest. This article examines some of the known worker health and safety implications related to the use and production of GMOs using the host, agent, and environment framework. The characteristics of employers, workers, inputs, production practices, and socio-economic environments in which future agricultural workers perform various tasks is likely to change based on the research summarized here.
Approximately 30% of the world's total land area and over 50% of the world's potential arable lands are acidic. Furthermore, the acidity of the soils is gradually increasing as a result of the environmental problems including some farming practices and acid rain. At mildly acidic or neutral soils, aluminium (Al) occurs primarily as insoluble deposits and is essentially biologically inactive. However, in many acidic soils throughout the tropics and subtropics, Al toxicity is a major factor limiting crop productivity. The Al-induced secretion of organic acid (OA) anions, mainly citrate, oxalate, and malate, from roots is the best documented mechanism of Al tolerance in higher plants. Increasing evidence shows that the Al-induced secretion of OA anions may be related to the following several factors, including (a) anion channels or transporters, (b) internal concentrations of OA anions in plant tissues, (d) temperature, (e) root plasma membrane (PM) H(+)-ATPase, (f) magnesium (Mg), and (e) phosphorus (P). Genetically modified plants and cells with higher Al tolerance by overexpressing genes for the secretion and the biosynthesis of OA anions have been obtained. In addition, some aspects needed to be further studied are also discussed.
An alarming increase in emergence of antibiotic resistance among pathogens worldwide has become a serious threat to our ability to treat infectious diseases according to the World Health Organization. Extensive use of antibiotics by livestock producers promotes the spread of new resistant strains, some of zoonotic concern, which increases food-borne illness in humans and causes significant economic burden on healthcare systems. Furthermore, consumer preferences for meat/poultry/fish produced without the use of antibiotics shape today's market demand. So, it is viewed as inevitable by the One Health Initiative that humans need to reduce the use of antibiotics and turn to alternative, improved means to control disease: vaccination and prophylactics. Besides the intense research focused on novel therapeutic molecules, both these strategies rely heavily on the availability of cost-effective, efficient and scalable production platforms which will allow large-volume manufacturing for vaccines, antibodies and other biopharmaceuticals. Within this context, plant-based platforms for production of recombinant therapeutic proteins offer significant advantages over conventional expression systems, including lack of animal pathogens, low production costs, fast turnaround and response times and rapid, nearly-unlimited scalability. Also, because dried leaves and seeds can be stored at room temperature for lengthy periods without loss of recombinant proteins, plant expression systems have the potential to offer lucrative benefits from the development of edible vaccines and prophylactics, as these would not require "cold chain" storage and transportation, and could be administered in mass volumes with minimal processing. Several biotechnology companies currently have developed and adopted plant-based platforms for commercial production of recombinant protein therapeutics. In this manuscript, we outline the challenges in the process of livestock immunization as well as the current plant biotechnology developments aimed to address these challenges.
The authors describe landmarks in animal-based research and examine key moral statements on the use of animals in scientific research. The principles of 'reduction, replacement and refinement' are suggested as a focus around which both the animal welfare and the scientific communities of the world can unite. This paper reviews the progress achieved in the replacement of animal use by non-animal methods, with a focus on regulatory testing. In addition, it presents evidence of a reduction in the numbers of animals used throughout the 1990s. The authors also emphasise the need for concerted efforts to contain a potential escalation in these figures, resulting from current inefficiencies in creating genetically modified animals and increasing demands for regulatory testing. Finally, the authors examine the refinement of techniques to mitigate and prevent pain and distress, with an emphasis on appropriate endpoints as an effective tool. They present the need for the international harmonisation of ethical standards and processes, together with a suggested harmonisation platform, and demonstrate the central role that should be played by the institutional Animal Care Committees.
Reproductive engineering techniques are essential for assisted reproduction of animals and generation of genetically modified animals. They may also provide invaluable research models for understanding the mechanisms involved in the developmental and reproductive processes. At the RIKEN BioResource Center (BRC), I have sought to develop new reproductive engineering techniques, especially those related to cryopreservation, microinsemination (sperm injection), nuclear transfer, and generation of new stem cell lines and animals, hoping that they will support the present and future projects at BRC. I also want to combine our techniques with genetic and biochemical analyses to solve important biological questions. We expect that this strategy makes our research more unique and refined by providing deeper insights into the mechanisms that govern the reproductive and developmental systems in mammals. To make this strategy more effective, it is critical to work with experts in different scientific fields. I have enjoyed collaborations with about 100 world-recognized laboratories, and all our collaborations have been successful and fruitful. This review summarizes development of reproductive engineering techniques at BRC during these 15 years.
Forty years after the World Health Organization abandoned its eradication campaign, malaria remains a public health problem of the first magnitude with worldwide infection rates on the order of 300 million souls. The present paper reviews potential control strategies from the viewpoint of mathematical epidemiology. Following MacDonald and others, we argue in Section 1 that the use of imagicides, i.e., killing, or at least repelling, adult mosquitoes, is inherently the most effective way of combating the pandemic. In Section 2, we model competition between wild-type (WT) and plasmodium-resistant, genetically modified (GM) mosquitoes. Under the assumptions of inherent cost and prevalence-dependant benefit to transgenics, GM introduction can never eradicate malaria save by stochastic extinction of WTs. Moreover, alternative interventions that reduce prevalence have the undesirable consequence of reducing the likelihood of successful GM introduction. Section 3 considers the possibility of using seasonal fluctuations in mosquito abundance and disease prevalence to 'slingshot' GM mosquitoes into natural populations. By introducing GM mosquitoes when natural populations are about to expand, one can 'piggyback' on the yearly cycle. Importantly, this effect is only significant when transgene cost is small, in which case the non-trivial equilibrium is a focus (damped oscillations), and piggybacking is amplified by the system's inherent tendency to oscillate. By way of contrast, when transgene cost is large, the equilibrium is a node and no such amplification is obtained.
Disease prevention through vaccination is considered to be the greatest contribution to public health over the past century. Every year more than 100 million children are vaccinated with the standard World Health Organization (WHO)-recommended vaccines including hepatitis B (HepB). HepB is the most serious type of liver infection caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV), however, it can be prevented by currently available recombinant vaccine, which has an excellent record of safety and effectiveness. To date, recombinant vaccines are produced in many systems of bacteria, yeast, insect, and mammalian and plant cells. Among these platforms, the use of plant cells has received considerable attention in terms of intrinsic safety, scalability, and appropriate modification of target proteins. Research groups worldwide have attempted to develop more efficacious plant-derived vaccines for over 30 diseases, most frequently HepB and influenza. More inspiring, approximately 12 plant-made antigens have already been tested in clinical trials, with successful outcomes. In this study, the latest information from the last 10 years on plant-derived antigens, especially hepatitis B surface antigen, approaches are reviewed and breakthroughs regarding the weak points are also discussed.
Gene drive technology offers the promise for a high-impact, cost-effective, and durable method to control malaria transmission that would make a significant contribution to elimination. Gene drive systems, such as those based on clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR associated protein, have the potential to spread beneficial traits through interbreeding populations of malaria mosquitoes. However, the characteristics of this technology have raised concerns that necessitate careful consideration of the product development pathway. A multidisciplinary working group considered the implications of low-threshold gene drive systems on the development pathway described in the World Health Organization Guidance Framework for testing genetically modified (GM) mosquitoes, focusing on reduction of malaria transmission by Anopheles gambiae s.l. mosquitoes in Africa as a case study. The group developed recommendations for the safe and ethical testing of gene drive mosquitoes, drawing on prior experience with other vector control tools, GM organisms, and biocontrol agents. These recommendations are organized according to a testing plan that seeks to maximize safety by incrementally increasing the degree of human and environmental exposure to the investigational product. As with biocontrol agents, emphasis is placed on safety evaluation at the end of physically confined laboratory testing as a major decision point for whether to enter field testing. Progression through the testing pathway is based on fulfillment of safety and efficacy criteria, and is subject to regulatory and ethical approvals, as well as social acceptance. The working group identified several resources that were considered important to support responsible field testing of gene drive mosquitoes.
Folate deficiency is a global health problem affecting many people in the developing and developed world. Current interventions (industrial food fortification and supplementation by folic acid pills) are effective if they can be used but might not be possible in less developed countries. Recent advances demonstrate that folate biofortification of food crops is now a feasible complementary strategy to fight folate deficiency worldwide. The genes and enzymes of folate synthesis are sufficiently understood to enable metabolic engineering of the pathway, and results from pilot engineering studies in plants (and bacteria) are encouraging. Here, we review the current status of investigations in the field of folate enhancement on the eve of a new era in food fortification.
Genetically modified crops (GMCs) have been planted world wide since 1990s, but the potential insecurity of selectable marker genes raises the questions about GMC safety. Therefore, several researches have been conducted on marker gene safety issues and recently several patents have been issued on this subject. There are two main approaches to achieve this goal: seeking the biosafety selectable marker and eliminating these insecure marker genes after transformation. Results show that these two systems are quite effective. Recent patents on the two ways are discussed in this review.
Shortly after gene transfer technologies had been established for different plant species, the first reports emerged about transgenes showing unexpected segregation patterns due to unstable expression. Initially, the erratic expression behavior of transgenes was considered a nuisance that impeded the impact and efficiency of a new technology. With the investigation of transgene silencing effects, however, it soon became clear that transgenes had helped us in a rather unexpected way to identify novel molecular pathways that were highly relevant to plant development and evolution. This article gives an account of a journey that started with the analysis of transgene-related silencing events and that led to the discovery of a new molecular world of small RNAs and epigenetic marks that regulate plant gene expression and adaptation to environmental changes.
The aim of the present paper was to review some features related to the risk analysis of three types of embryos to be transferred, namely the in vivo derived, the in vitro produced and the cloned ones. For in vivo-collected embryos, a considerable number of experiments and scientific investigations have been performed and hundreds of thousands of embryos are transferred annually with no contamination of associated diseases. Provided that the code of practice such as that published by the International Embryo Transfer Society is strictly followed by the embryo transfer practitioners, the statement made some 17 years ago saying that the in vivo-derived embryo transfer was the safest way of exchanging genes remains entirely true, thanks to the professionalism of the embryo transfer industry. For the in vitro-produced embryos, some particular rules have to be followed because of specific risks for some pathogens to strongly adhere to the zona pellucida of such embryos. There are some means to monitor and control those effects, and the transfer of in vitro-produced embryos can also be a very safe way to exchange genes around the world. The third type of embryos, the cloned ones, is a quite different category and the risk analysis to be soundly made still needs a lot of investigations so as to characterize the potential risks if there are, in terms not only of disease transmission but also in terms of public health, zoonotic risks as well as those related to quality and safety of food. The problem in this regard, is more directly addressed for offspring of clones than to the cloned embryos themselves. Published data on this issue are increasing in numbers so that progress in that area is expected in the few years to come.
Wild and managed pollinators provide a wide range of benefits to society in terms of contributions to food security, farmer and beekeeper livelihoods, social and cultural values, as well as the maintenance of wider biodiversity and ecosystem stability. Pollinators face numerous threats, including changes in land-use and management intensity, climate change, pesticides and genetically modified crops, pollinator management and pathogens, and invasive alien species. There are well-documented declines in some wild and managed pollinators in several regions of the world. However, many effective policy and management responses can be implemented to safeguard pollinators and sustain pollination services.
Maize (Zea mays) is a widely cultivated cereal that has been safely consumed by humans and animals for centuries. Transgenic or genetically engineered insect-resistant and herbicide-tolerant maize, are commercially grown on a broad scale. Event TC1507 (OECD unique identifier: DAS-Ø15Ø7-1) or the Herculex®(#) I trait, an insect-resistant and herbicide-tolerant maize expressing Cry1F and PAT proteins, has been registered for commercial cultivation in the US since 2001. A science-based safety assessment was conducted on TC1507 prior to commercialization. The safety assessment addressed allergenicity; acute oral toxicity; subchronic toxicity; substantial equivalence with conventional comparators, as well as environmental impact. Results from biochemical, physicochemical, and in silico investigations supported the conclusion that Cry1F and PAT proteins are unlikely to be either allergenic or toxic to humans. Also, findings from toxicological and animal feeding studies supported that maize with TC1507 is as safe and nutritious as conventional maize. Maize with TC1507 is not expected to behave differently than conventional maize in terms of its potential for invasiveness, gene flow to wild and weedy relatives, or impact on non-target organisms. These safety conclusions regarding TC1507 were acknowledged by over 20 regulatory agencies including United States Environment Protection Agency (US EPA), US Department of Agriculture (USDA), Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA), and European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) before authorizing cultivation and/or food and feed uses. A comprehensive review of the safety studies on TC1507, as well as some benefits, are presented here to serve as a reference for regulatory agencies and decision makers in other countries where authorization of TC1507 is or will be pursued.
The present world energy situation urgently requires exploring and developing alternate, sustainable sources for fuel. Biofuels have proven to be an effective energy source but more needs to be produced to meet energy goals. Whereas first generation biofuels derived from mainly corn and sugarcane continue to be used and produced, the contentious debate between "feedstock versus foodstock" continues. The need for sources that can be grown under different environmental conditions has led to exploring newer sources. Lignocellulosic biomass is an attractive source for production of biofuel, but pretreatment costs to remove lignin are high and the process is time consuming. Genetically modified plants that have increased sugar or starch content, modified lignin content, or produce cellulose degrading enzymes are some options that are being explored and tested. This review focuses on current research on increasing production of biofuels by genetic engineering of plants to have desirable characteristics. Recent patents that have been filed in this area are also discussed.
Background:                       To provide the consumer with choices of genetically modified organisms (GMO) or non-GMO, official food labeling systems were established in many countries. Because the threshold GMO content values were set to distinguish between "non-GMO" and "GMO" designations, GMO content quantification methods are required for ensuring the appropriateness of labeling.                  Objective:                       As the number of GMOs is continuously increasing around the world, we set out to develop a low-cost, simple and less biased analytical strategy to cover all necessary detection targets.                  Methods:                       Digital PCR methods are advantageous compared to the conventional quantitative real-time PCR methods. We developed a digital PCR-based GMO quantification method to evaluate the GMO content in maize grains. To minimize the analytical workload, we adopted multiplex digital PCR targeting the 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase terminator, which are genetic elements commonly introduced in many GMOs.                  Results:                       Our method is significantly simpler and more precise than the conventional real-time PCR-based methods. Additionally, we found that this method enables quantification of the copy number of GMO DNA without double counting multiple elements (35S promoter and nopaline synthase terminator) tandemly placed in a recombinant DNA construct.                  Conclusion:                       This is the first report on the development of a genetically modified maize quantification method using a multiplexed genetic element-specific digital PCR method. The tandem effect we report here is quite useful for reducing the bias in the analytical results.                  Highlights:                       Multiplexed genetic element-specific digital PCR can simplify weight-based GMO quantification and thus should prove useful in light of the continuous increase in the number of GM events.
Due to a phenomenon known as the 'backfire effect', intuition-based opinions can be inadvertently strengthened by evidence-based counterarguments. Students' views on genetically modified organisms (GMOs) may be subject to this effect. We explored the impact of an empathetically accessible topic, world hunger, on receptivity to GMO technology as an alternative to direct evidence-based approaches.
Environmental stresses including climate change, especially global warming, are severely affecting plant growth and productivity worldwide. It has been estimated that two-thirds of the yield potential of major crops are routinely lost due to the unfavorable environmental factors. On the other hand, the world population is estimated to reach about 10 billion by 2050, which will witness serious food shortages. Therefore, crops with enhanced vigour and high tolerance to various environmental factors should be developed to feed the increasing world population. Maintaining crop yields under adverse environmental stresses is probably the major challenge facing modern agriculture where polyamines can play important role. Polyamines (PAs)(putrescine, spermidine and spermine) are group of phytohormone-like aliphatic amine natural compounds with aliphatic nitrogen structure and present in almost all living organisms including plants. Evidences showed that polyamines are involved in many physiological processes, such as cell growth and development and respond to stress tolerance to various environmental factors. In many cases the relationship of plant stress tolerance was noted with the production of conjugated and bound polyamines as well as stimulation of polyamine oxidation. Therefore, genetic manipulation of crop plants with genes encoding enzymes of polyamine biosynthetic pathways may provide better stress tolerance to crop plants. Furthermore, the exogenous application of PAs is also another option for increasing the stress tolerance potential in plants. Here, we have described the synthesis and role of various polyamines in abiotic stress tolerance in plants.
The zebrafish, Danio rerio, a small, tropical freshwater species native to Pakistan and India, has become a National Institutes of Health-sanctioned model organism and, due to its many advantages as an experimental vertebrate, it has garnered intense interest from the world's scientific community. Some have labeled the zebrafish, the "vertebrate Drosophila," due to its genetic tractability, small size, low cost, and rapid development. The transparency of the embryo, external development, and the many hundreds of mutant and transgenic lines available add to the allure. Now it appears, the zebrafish can be used for high-throughput screening (HTS) of drug libraries in the discovery process of promising new therapeutics. In this review, various types of screening methods are briefly outlined, as are a variety of screens for different disease models, to highlight the range of zebrafish HTS possibilities. High-content screening (HCS) has been available for cell-based screens for some time and, very recently, HCS is being adapted for the zebrafish. This will allow analysis, at high resolution, of drug effects on whole vertebrates; thus, whole body effects as well as those on specific organs and tissues may be determined.
The rapid globalization of the world economy has increased the need for a knowledge base of reliable socio-cultural differences in perceptions, values and ways of thinking about new food technologies. Awareness of socio-cultural differences is important because collaborative efforts to deal with food hazards presuppose some understanding of where, how and why the viewpoints of various stakeholders may differ. In the present paper factors that influence public perceptions of genetically-modified (GM) food are discussed, with a special focus on the unique circumstances of populations in the USA, Europe and developing countries. It is argued that effective communication and decision making about the risk of GM food depends critically on understanding how socio-cultural groups differ in their values and in the way they deal with the risks and benefits of new technologies. The implications of psychological aspects of perceived risk (including the roles of qualitative dimensions of risk, world views and trust) for public acceptance of new food technologies are highlighted.
Argentina is a world leader in regards to regulation and adoption of genetically modified (GM) crops. As a consequence, the regulatory aspects of gene editing applied to agriculture were considered proactively by the Argentinian regulators, who implemented simple but solid pioneering regulatory criteria for gene edited crops. At present, the Argentine regulatory system is fully able to establish if a gene-edited crop should be classified (and handled) either as a GM crop or a conventional new variety. To this end, the concept of "novel combination of genetic material" derived from the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety is of decisive importance. After some pilot cases that have been managed under this criteria, now applicants appreciate the ease, speed and predictability of the regulation. Moreover, it has been considered by other countries in the course of developing their own regulations, thus acting also as a harmonization factor for the safe and effective insertion of these technologies in the global market.
Glyphosate is the world's most important herbicide, with many uses that deliver effective and sustained control of a wide spectrum of unwanted (weedy) plant species. Until recently there were relatively few reports of weedy plant species evolving resistance to glyphosate. Since 1996, the advent and subsequent high adoption of transgenic glyphosate-resistant crops in the Americas has meant unprecedented and often exclusive use of glyphosate for weed control over very large areas. Consequently, in regions of the USA where transgenic glyphosate-resistant crops dominate, there are now evolved glyphosate-resistant populations of the economically damaging weed species Ambrosia artemissifolia L., Ambrosia trifida L., Amaranthus palmeri S Watson, Amaranthus rudis JD Sauer, Amaranthus tuberculatus (Moq) JD Sauer and various Conyza and Lolium spp. Likewise, in areas of transgenic glyphosate-resistant crops in Argentina and Brazil, there are now evolved glyphosate-resistant populations of Sorghum halepense (L.) Pers and Euphorbia heterophylla L. respectively. As transgenic glyphosate-resistant crops will remain very popular with producers, it is anticipated that glyphosate-resistant biotypes of other prominent weed species will evolve over the next few years. Therefore, evolved glyphosate-resistant weeds are a major risk for the continued success of glyphosate and transgenic glyphosate-resistant crops. However, glyphosate-resistant weeds are not yet a problem in many parts of the world, and lessons can be learnt and actions taken to achieve glyphosate sustainability. A major lesson is that maintenance of diversity in weed management systems is crucial for glyphosate to be sustainable. Glyphosate is essential for present and future world food production, and action to secure its sustainability for future generations is a global imperative.
The fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda, is an economically important pest of corn, cotton, and soybean, and a major target of transgenic crops expressing Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) proteins. In recent years, this insect has invaded most countries in Africa, Southeastern Asia, and Oceania, posing a great threat to food security. Successful use of Bt crops in the U.S. indicates that Bt technology can be an effective tool for management of S. frugiperda in other countries. Evolution of insect resistance is the primary threat to the long-term efficacy of Bt technology. There are many factors that may affect the rate of evolution of insect resistance to Bt crops, which include initial resistance allele frequency, the dose of Bt protein in Bt crops, cross-resistance, complete/incomplete resistance, and fitness costs associated with resistance. Currently, the high dose/refuge and gene-pyramiding approaches are the two main IRM strategies used in the U.S. to combat evolution of insect resistance. In this paper, we review research on resistance of S. frugiperda to Cry1, Cry2, and Vip3Aa proteins. Specifically, we discuss the resistance allele frequencies of S. frugiperda to these three proteins in the field, the genetic basis of resistance, the patterns of cross-resistance, and the fitness costs associated with resistance. Experience and knowledge gained from these studies provide valuable information for the successful use of Bt crop technology for control of S. frugiperda worldwide.
Artemisinin, the endoperoxide sesquiterpene lactone, is an effective antimalarial drug isolated from the Chinese medicinal plant Artemisia annua L. Due to its effectiveness against multi-drug-resistant cerebral malaria, it becomes the essential components of the artemisinin-based combination therapies which are recommended by the World Health Organization as the preferred choice for malaria tropica treatments. To date, plant A. annua is still the main commercial source of artemisinin. Although semi-synthesis of artemisinin via artemisinic acid in yeast is feasible at present, another promising approach to reduce the price of artemisinin is using plant metabolic engineering to obtain a higher content of artemisinin in transgenic plants. In the past years, an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system of A. annua has been established by which a number of genes related to artemisinin biosynthesis have been successfully transferred into A. annua plants. In this review, the progress on increasing artemisinin content in A. annua by transgenic approach and its future prospect are summarized and discussed.
Currently, heavy metal pollution becomes a severe problem whole over the world, and these toxic metals enter into the environment either by natural phenomena or due to extensive industrialization. The discharged effluents containing toxic heavy metals mixed with soil/water and change their natural composition. These heavy metals have adverse effects on living beings and cause damage to the vital body organs of animals as well as humans. The heavy metal pollution also inhibits the biodegradation of the chlorinated organic compounds (another type of environmental pollution) by interacting with metabolizing enzymes and inhibits their functioning. Earlier studies described that heavy metals cannot be fully removed from the environment, but they can be effectively neutralized or transformed into less toxic form so that their harmful effect on the environment can be reduced. The distinctive enzymatic apparatus within microbial system plays a major role in the transformation of heavy metals in the environment. A considerable advancement has been made during recent years to transform the heavy metals by utilizing the bioremediation potential of genetically engineered (GE) microorganisms. These transgenics are very much efficient in heavy metal transformations and still, we have to discover more to additionally utilize their full biotransformation potential.In the present review article, the detailed description of the adverse effects of four heavy metals (arsenic, lead, mercury, and chromium) and their adverse effect on our environment and human beings is discussed. Furthermore, the use of microorganisms/GE organisms for the bioremediation of heavy metals from the environment is also discussed along with their detailed bioremediation mechanism.
The recent advances in biotechnology in the plant industry have led to increasing crop production and yield that in turn has increased the usage of genetically modified (GM) food in the human food chain. The usage of GM foods for human consumption has raised a number of fundamental questions including the ability of GM foods to elicit potentially harmful immunological responses, including allergic hypersensitivity. To assess the safety of foods derived from GM plants including allergenic potential, the US FDA, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)/World Health Organization (WHO), and the EU have developed approaches for evaluation assessment. One assessment approach that has been a very active area of research and debate is the development and usage of animal models to assess the potential allergenicity of GM foods. A number of specific animal models employing rodents, pigs, and dogs have been developed for allergenicity assessment. However, validation of these models is needed and consideration of the criteria for an appropriate animal model for the assessment of allergenicity in GM plants is required. We have recently employed a BALB/c mouse model to assess the potential allergenicity of GM plants. We have been able to demonstrate that this model is able to detect differences in antigenicity and identify aspects of protein post-translational modifications that can alter antigenicity. Furthermore, this model has also enabled us to examine the usage of GM plants as a therapeutic approach for the treatment of allergic diseases. This review discusses the current approaches to assess the allergenic potential of GM food and particularly focusing on the usage of animal models to determine the potential allergenicity of GM foods and gives an overview of our recent findings and implications of these studies.
Genetic mapping, genomic profiling and bioinformatic approaches were used to identify putative resistance genes for ear rots and low mycotoxin contamination in maize. Genomic selection seems to have good perspectives. Maize is globally an indispensable crop for humans and livestock. About 30% of yield is lost by fungal diseases with Gibberella, Fusarium and Aspergillus ear rots (ERs) having a high economic impact in most maize-growing regions of the world. They reduce not only yield, but also contaminate grains with mycotoxins like deoxynivalenol, zearalenone, fumonisins and aflatoxins, respectively. These mycotoxins pose serious health problems to humans and animals. A number of studies have been conducted to dissect the genetic architecture of resistance to these three major ear rots over the past decade. The review concentrates on studies carried out to locate quantitative trait loci (QTL) and candidate genes (CG) on the maize genome as well as the application of genomic selection in maize for resistance against Fusarium graminearum, Fusarium verticillioides and Aspergillus flavus. QTL studies by linkage or genome-wide association mapping, omic technologies (genomics, proteomics, transcriptomics and metabolomics) and bioinformatics are the methods used in the current studies to propose resistance genes against ear rot pathogens. Though a number of QTL and CG are reported, only a few specific genes were found to directly confer ER resistance in maize. A combination of two or more gene identification methods would provide a more powerful and reliable tool. Genomic selection seems to be promising for ER resistance breeding, but there are only a limited number of studies in this area. A strategy that can accurately validate and predict genotypes with major effect QTL and CG for selection will be worthwhile for practical breeding against ERs and mycotoxin contamination in maize.
Climate change is considered a major threat to world agriculture and food security. To improve the agricultural productivity and sustainability, the development of high-yielding stress-tolerant, and climate-resilient crops is essential. Of the abiotic stresses, flooding stress is a very serious hazard because it markedly reduces plant growth and grain yield. Proteomic analyses indicate that the effects of flooding stress are not limited to oxygen deprivation but include many other factors. Although many flooding response mechanisms have been reported, flooding tolerance mechanisms have not been fully clarified for soybean. There were limitations in soybean materials, such as mutants and varieties, while they were abundant in rice and Arabidopsis. In this review, plant proteomic technologies are introduced and flooding tolerance mechanisms of soybeans are summarized to assist in the improvement of flooding tolerance in soybeans. This work will expedite transgenic or marker-assisted genetic enhancement studies in crops for developing high-yielding stress-tolerant lines or varieties under abiotic stress.
Livestock that result from biotechnology have been a part of agricultural science for over 30 years but have not entered the market place as food or fiber. Two biotechnologies are at the forefront as challenges to the world's systems for regulating the market place: animal clones and transgenic animals. Both technologies have come before the Food and Drug Administration in the United States and it appears that action is imminent for clones. The FDA has asserted principles for evaluation of clones and asserts that "... remaining hazard(s) from cloning are likely to be subtle in nature." The science-based principles recognize that in some areas related to developmental biology and gene expression in clones, additional scientific information would be useful. The role of science then is to use the genomic tools that we have available to answer questions about epigenetic regulation of development and reprogramming of genes to the state found in germ cells. Transgenics pose additional challenges to regulators. If the transgenics are produced using cloning from modified cells then the additional scientific information needed will be related to the effects of insertion and expression of the transgenes. Other approaches such as retrovirally vectored transgenesis will elicit additional questions. These questions will be challenging because the science will have to be related to the expression and function of each gene or class of genes. For the promises of animal biotechnology to be fulfilled, scientists will have to resolve many questions for regulators and the public but tools to answer those questions are rapidly becoming available.
The sobering reality is that each year, 33 million children remain unvaccinated for vaccine-preventable diseases. Universal childhood vaccination would have profound effects on leveling the health inequities in many parts of the world. As an alternative to administration of vaccines by needle and syringe, oral vaccines offer significant logistical advantages, as the polio eradication campaign has demonstrated. Over the past decade, the expression of subunit vaccine antigens in plants has emerged as a convenient, safe and potentially economical platform technology, with the potential to provide a novel biotechnological solution to vaccine production and delivery. As this technology has come of age, many improvements have been made on several fronts, as a growing number of research groups worldwide have extensively investigated plants as factories for vaccine production. This review attempts to highlight some of the achievements over the past 15 years, identify some of the potential problems and discuss the promises that this technology could fulfill.
Because of the public concern surrounding the issue of the safety of genetically modified organisms, it is critical to have appropriate methodologies to aid investigators in identifying potential hazards associated with consumption of foods produced with these materials. A recent panel of experts convened by the Food and Agriculture Organization and World Health Organization suggested there is scientific evidence that using data from animal studies will contribute important information regarding the allergenicity of foods derived from biotechnology. This view has given further impetus to the development of suitable animal models for allergenicity assessment. This article is a review of what has been achieved and what still has to be accomplished regarding several different animal models. Progress made in the design and evaluation of models in the rat, the mouse, the dog and in swine is reviewed and discussed.
Micronutrient malnutrition affects more than half of the world population, particularly in developing countries. Concerted international and national fortification and supplementation efforts to curb the scourge of micronutrient malnutrition are showing a positive impact, alas without reaching the goals set by international organizations. Biofortification, the delivery of micronutrients via micronutrient-dense crops, offers a cost-effective and sustainable approach, complementing these efforts by reaching rural populations. Bioavailable micronutrients in the edible parts of staple crops at concentrations high enough to impact on human health can be obtained through breeding, provided that sufficient genetic variation for a given trait exists, or through transgenic approaches. Research and breeding programs are underway to enrich the major food staples in developing countries with the most important micronutrients: iron, provitamin A, zinc and folate.
Xenotransplantation is currently being investigated as a possible solution to the world-wide shortage of human organs. Several major advances have unquestionably been accomplished in the last decade in this field. These include an elucidation of the immunological mechanisms underlying the rejection of pig organs transplanted into primates, the generation of novel lines of genetically-engineered pigs that are more "compatible" with man and a better understanding of the risk of zoonosis related to the transmission of porcine endogenous retroviruses to primates. Though very encouraging, the existing preclinical data do not entitle clinical trials with pig organs to begin as yet and, for the time being, the use of human organs remains the only viable option for patients with terminal organ failure.
Rising global populations have amplified food scarcity across the world and ushered in the development of genetically modified (GM) crops to overcome these challenges. Cultivation of major crops such as corn and soy has favoured GM crops over conventional varieties to meet crop production and resilience needs. Modern GM crops containing small interference RNA molecules and antibiotic resistance genes have become increasingly common in the United States. However, the use of these crops remains controversial due to the uncertainty regarding the unintended release of its genetic material into the environment and possible downstream effects on human and environmental health. DNA or RNA transgenes may be exuded from crop tissues during cultivation or released during plant decomposition and adsorbed by soil. This can contribute to the persistence and bioavailability in soil or water environment and possible uptake by soil microbial communities and further passing of this information to neighbouring bacteria, disrupting microbial ecosystem services such as nutrient cycling and soil fertility. In this review, transgene mechanisms of action, uses in crops, and knowledge regarding their environmental fate and impact to microbes are evaluated. This aims to encapsulate the current knowledge and promote further research regarding unintended effects transgenes may cause.
Population growth is increasing rapidly around the world, in these consequences we need to produce more foods to full fill the demand of increased population. The world is facing global warming due to urbanizations and industrialization and in this concerns plants exposed continuously to abiotic stresses which is a major cause of crop hammering every year. Abiotic stresses consist of Drought, Salt, Heat, Cold, Oxidative and Metal toxicity which damage the crop yield continuously. Drought and salinity stress severally affected in similar manner to plant and the leading cause of reduction in crop yield. Plants respond to various stimuli under abiotic or biotic stress condition and express certain genes either structural or regulatory genes which maintain the plant integrity. The regulatory genes primarily the transcription factors that exert their activity by binding to certain cis DNA elements and consequently either up regulated or down regulate to target expression. These transcription factors are known as masters regulators because its single transcript regulate more than one gene, in this context the regulon word is fascinating more in compass of transcription factors. Progress has been made to better understand about effect of regulons (AREB/ABF, DREB, MYB, and NAC) under abiotic stresses and a number of regulons reported for stress responsive and used as a better transgenic tool of Arabidopsis and Rice.
Glyphosate (N-phosphonomethyl-glycine) is the most widely used herbicide in the world: glyphosate-based formulations exhibit broad-spectrum herbicidal activity with minimal human and environmental toxicity. The extraordinary success of this simple, small molecule is mainly attributable to the high specificity of glyphosate for the plant enzyme enolpyruvyl shikimate-3-phosphate synthase in the shikimate pathway, leading to the biosynthesis of aromatic amino acids. Starting in 1996, transgenic glyphosate-resistant plants were introduced, thus allowing application of the herbicide to the crop (post-emergence) to remove emerged weeds without crop damage. This review focuses on mechanisms of resistance to glyphosate as obtained through natural diversity, the gene-shuffling approach to molecular evolution, and a rational, structure-based approach to protein engineering. In addition, we offer a rationale for the means by which the modifications made have had their intended effect.
The major food safety risks are not eating a healthy diet, and failure to avoid foodborne illness. Over one billion people in the world suffer from food insecurity and malnutrition. Nutritionally enhanced transgenic crops such as Golden Rice are one potential strategy for reducing malnutrition in the world. Transgenic crops are subjected to a rigorous pre-market safety assessment. The safety of novel proteins and other products is established, and through compositional analysis and animal studies, the safety of any observed changes is evaluated. These studies provide evidence that the new product is as safe as, or safer than, comparable varieties. It must be asked, however, if this rigorous analysis is necessary, because unregulated crops produced by other breeding methods also undergo genetic changes and contain unintended effects. Golden Rice poses infinitesimally small, if any, risk to consumers whilst it has the potential to spare millions of lives each year. However, because it is a transgenic crop, it cannot be deployed without years of expensive pre-market safety review. Paradoxically, if Golden Rice had been produced by less precise conventional methods of breeding, it would already be in the hands of poor farmers. It is concluded that the hyper-precautionary regulatory process applied to transgenic crops works to the extreme disadvantage of the hungry and the poor.
The sunflower is one of the four most important oilseed crops in the world, and the nutritional quality of its edible oil ranks among the best vegetable oils in cultivation. Typically up to 90% of the fatty acids in conventional sunflower oil are unsaturated, namely oleic (C 18:1, 16%-19%) and linoleic (C 18:2, 68%-72%) fatty acids. Palmitic (C 16:0, 6%), stearic (C 18:0, 5%), and minor amounts of myristic (C 14:0), myristoleic (C 14:1), palmitoleic (C 16:1), arachidic (C 20:0), behenic (C 22:0), and other fatty acids account for the remaining 10%. Advances in modern genetics, most importantly induced mutations, have altered the fatty acid composition of sunflower oil to a significant extent. Treating sunflower seeds with gamma- and X-rays has produced mutants with 25%-30% palmitic acid. Sunflower seed treatment with X-rays has also resulted in mutants having 30% palmitoleic acid, while treatments with mutagenic sodium azide have produced seeds containing 35% stearic acid. The most important mutations have been obtained by treatment with dimethyl sulfate, which produced genotypes with more than 90% oleic acid. Mutants have also been obtained that have a high linoleic acid content (>80%) by treating seeds with X-rays and ethyl methanesulfonate. Of the vitamin E family of compounds, sunflower oil is known to predominantly contain alpha-tocopherol (>90%). Spontaneous mutations controlled by recessive genes have been discovered that significantly alter tocopherol forms and levels. The genes in question are tph(1) (50% alpha- and 50% beta-tocopherol), tph(2) (0%-5% alpha- and 95%-100% gamma-tocopherol), and tph(1)tph(2) (8%-40% alpha-, 0%-25% beta-, 25%-84% gamma-, and 8%-50% delta-tocopherol). The existence of (mutant) genes for increased levels of individual fatty acids and for different forms and levels of tocopherol enables the development of sunflower hybrids with different oil quality. The greatest progress has been made in developing high-oleic hybrids (>90% oleic acid). There has been considerable work done recently on the development of high-oleic hybrids with altered tocopherol levels, the oil of which will have 10-20 times greater oxidative stability than that of conventional sunflower oil. While sunflower breeders work on developing hybrids with altered oil quality, medical scientists in general and nutritionists in particular will determine the parameters for the use of these novel types of oil that can improve human nutrition and be used in the prevention of cardiovascular diseases.
Genetic engineering provides a means to introduce genes into plants via mechanisms that are different in some respects from classical breeding. A number of commercialized, genetically engineered (GE) varieties, most notably canola, cotton, maize and soybean, were created using this technology, and at present the traits introduced are herbicide and/or pest tolerance. In 2007 these GE crops were planted in developed and developing countries on more than 280 million acres (113 million hectares) worldwide, representing nearly 10% of rainfed cropland. Although the United States leads the world in acres planted with GE crops, the majority of this planting is on large acreage farms. In developing countries, adopters are mostly small and resource-poor farmers. For farmers and many consumers worldwide, planting and eating GE crops and products made from them are acceptable and even welcomed; for others GE crops raise food and environmental safety questions, as well as economic and social issues. In Part I of this review, some general and food issues related to GE crops and foods were discussed. In Part II, issues related to certain environmental and socioeconomic aspects of GE crops and foods are addressed, with responses linked to the scientific literature.
Foods produced through agricultural biotechnology, including such staples as corn, soybeans, canola, and potatoes, are already reaching the consumer marketplace. Agricultural biotechnology offers the promise to produce crops with improved agronomic characteristics (eg, insect resistance, herbicide tolerance, disease resistance, and climatic tolerance) and enhanced consumer benefits (eg, better taste and texture, longer shelf life, and more nutritious). Certainly, the products of agricultural biotechnology should be subjected to a careful and complete safety assessment before commercialization. Because the genetic modification ultimately results in the introduction of new proteins into the food plant, the safety, including the potential allergenicity, of the newly introduced proteins must be assessed. Although most allergens are proteins, only a few of the many proteins found in foods are allergenic under the typical circumstances of exposure. The potential allergenicity of the introduced proteins can be evaluated by focusing on the source of the gene, the sequence homology of the newly introduced protein to known allergens, the expression level of the novel protein in the modified crop, the functional classification of the novel protein, the reactivity of the novel protein with IgE from the serum of individuals with known allergies to the source of the transferred genetic material, and various physicochemical properties of the newly introduced protein, such as heat stability and digestive stability. Few products of agricultural biotechnology (and none of the current products) will involve the transfer of genes from known allergenic sources. Applying such criteria provides reasonable assurance that the newly introduced protein has limited capability to become an allergen.
Previous field studies have reached no collective consensus on whether Bt corn, the most commonly planted transgenic crop worldwide, has significantly lower aflatoxin levels than non-Bt isolines. Aflatoxin, a mycotoxin contaminating corn and other commodities, causes liver cancer in humans and can pose severe economic losses to farmers. We found that from 2001-2016, a significant inverse correlation existed between Bt corn planting and aflatoxin-related insurance claims in the United States, when controlling for temperature and drought. Estimated benefits of aflatoxin reduction resulting from Bt corn planting are about $120 million to $167 million per year over 16 states on average. These results suggest that Bt corn use is an important strategy in reducing aflatoxin risk, with corresponding economic benefits. If the same principles hold true in other world regions, then Bt corn hybrids adapted to diverse agronomic regions may have a role in reducing aflatoxin in areas prone to high aflatoxin contamination, and where corn is a dietary staple.
Micronutrient malnutrition is widespread, especially in poor populations across the globe where daily caloric intake is confined mainly to staple cereals. Rice, which is a staple food for over half of the world's population, is low in bioavailable micronutrients required for the daily diet. Improvements of the plant-based diets are therefore critical and of high economic value in order to achieve a healthy nutrition of a large segment of the human population. Rice grain biofortification has emerged as a strategic priority for alleviation of micronutrient malnutrition. Nutritional enhancement of crops through conventional breeding is often limited by the low genetic variability for required dietary micronutrient levels. In this case, biotechnology strategies offer effective and efficient perspectives. In this review, we discuss genetic engineering approaches that have been successful in the nutritional enhancement of rice endosperm. These advancements will make substantial contributions to crop improvement and human nutrition. Their practical application, however, also demands visionary changes in regulatory policies and a broader consumer acceptance.
Public experimental embryology opens a relationship between an embryo and an amateur transgenic designer. Artists produce real-world effects by forcing hereditary aesthetics on developing bodies. This lab was meant to aid in public understanding of the relationship between transgenics and aesthetics. How do we to take an active and hands-on tactical stance on the role of hereditary designer and how does this help in public analysis of the bioethics of genetic engineering. Through naming and funeral rites, we assign the embryos an uncertain amount of clout or cultural worth. This lab is an example of how to understand the relationship between institutional oversight in pre-animal experimentation, embryonic dignity, and the problem of humane sacrifice. The intention is to make a hands-on wet bioart lab meant to aid in public comprehension of the range of politics and responsibilities involved in play at the level of heredity. The Developmental Biology and Transgenic Avian Embryology Bioart Wet Lab was held in Gorlaeus Laboratories, LIC, University of Leiden, Leiden, Netherlands, 2007.
GM plants are widely grown all over the world, but many constraints still tend to discourage their use in Europe. Potential risks suggested to be associated with the use of GM are unexpected gene effects, allergenic potential, antibiotic resistance, gene flow. GM feed safety is presently evaluated by adopting the concept of GM substantial equivalence, by comparison with non-GM isogenic crops. Comparison is based on a wide spectrum of chemical components and on livestock performance. From the available experimental data, currently utilized GM plants appear safe and show no effects on animals or animal products. Hence, although they potentially exist, safety risks caused by the use of GM plants appear to be so low as be negligible in comparison with their potential benefits, if appropriately designed. GM plants represent a valuable option for future breeding, to increase yield while reducing the use of pesticides, improve plant adaptation to unfavourable environments, and produce better quality crops, also from a nutritional point of view. Nonetheless, GM crops are novel foods and the assessment of their safety using a scientific sound approach seems essential to protect the environment, as well as the health of humans and livestock.
This review article points out that bananas are an important food for many people in the world. Thus, banana cultivars rich in provitamin A carotenoids may offer a potential food source for alleviating vitamin A deficiency, particularly in developing countries. Many factors are associated with the presently known food sources of vitamin A that limit their effectiveness in improving vitamin A status. Acceptable carotenoid-rich banana cultivars have been identified in Micronesia, and some carotenoid-rich bananas have been identified elsewhere. Bananas are an ideal food for young children and families for many regions of the world, because of their sweetness, texture, portion size, familiarity, availability, convenience, versatility, and cost. Foods containing high levels of carotenoids have been shown to protect against chronic disease, including certain cancers, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Because the coloration of the edible flesh of the banana appears to be a good indicator of likely carotenoid content, it may be possible to develop a simple method for selecting carotenoid-rich banana cultivars in the community. Research is needed on the identification of carotenoid-rich cultivars, targeting those areas of the world where bananas are a major staple food; investigating factors affecting production, consumption, and acceptability; and determining the impact that carotenoid-rich bananas may have on improving vitamin A status. Based on these results, interventions should be undertaken for initiating or increasing homestead and commercial production.
Rhizomania is a soil-borne disease that occurs throughout the major sugar beet growing regions of the world, causing severe yield losses in the absence of effective control measures. It is caused by Beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYVV), which is transmitted by the obligate root-infecting parasite Polymyxa betae. BNYVV has a multipartite RNA genome with all natural isolates containing four RNA species, although some isolates have a fifth RNA. The larger RNA1 and RNA2 contain the housekeeping genes of the virus and are always required for infection, whereas the smaller RNAs are involved in pathogenicity and vector transmission. RNA5-containing isolates are restricted to Asia and some parts of Europe, and these isolates tend to be more aggressive. With no acceptable pesticides available to restrict the vector, the control of rhizomania is now achieved almost exclusively through the use of resistant cultivars. A single dominant resistance gene, Rz1, has been used to manage the disease worldwide in recent years, although this gene confers only partial resistance. More recently, new variants of BNYVV have evolved (both with and without RNA5) that are able to cause significant yield penalties on resistant cultivars. These isolates are not yet widespread, but their appearance has resulted in accelerated searches for new sources of resistance to both the virus and the vector. Combined virus and vector resistance, achieved either by conventional or transgenic breeding, offers the sugar beet industry a new approach in its continuing struggle against rhizomania.
Alfalfa is one of the most important legume forage crops in the world. In spite of its agronomic and nutritive advantages, alfalfa has some limitations in the usage of pasture forage and hay supplement. High rapid degradation of protein in alfalfa poses a risk of rumen bloat to ruminants which could cause huge economic losses for farmers. Coupled with the relatively high lignin content, which impedes the degradation of carbohydrate in rumen, alfalfa has unbalanced and asynchronous degradation ratio of nitrogen to carbohydrate (N/CHO) in rumen. Genetic engineering approaches have been used to manipulate the expression of genes involved in important metabolic pathways for the purpose of improving the nutritive value, forage yield, and the ability to resist abiotic stress. Such gene modification could bring molecular structural changes in alfalfa that are detectable by advanced structural analytical techniques. These structural analyses have been employed in assessing alfalfa forage characteristics, allowing for rapid, convenient and cost-effective analysis of alfalfa forage quality. In this article, we review two major obstacles facing alfalfa utilization, namely poor protein utilization and relatively high lignin content, and highlight genetic studies that were performed to overcome these drawbacks, as well as to introduce other improvements to alfalfa quality. We also review the use of advanced molecular structural analysis in the assessment of alfalfa forage for its potential usage in quality selection in alfalfa breeding.
Rice (Oryza sativa) is one of the most important staple food crops for more than half of the world's population. The demand is increasing for food security because of population growth and environmental challenges triggered by climate changes. This scenario has led to more interest in developing crops with greater productivity and sustainability. The process of genetic transformation, a major tool for crop improvement, utilizes promoters as one of its key elements. Those promoters are generally divided into three types: constitutive, spatiotemporal, and condition-dependent. Transcriptional control of a constitutive promoter often leads to reduced plant growth, due to a negative effect of accumulated molecules during cellular functions or energy consumption. To maximize the effect of a transgene on transgenic plants, it is better to use condition-dependent or tissue-specific promoters. However, until now, those types have not been as widely applied in crop biotechnology. In this review, we introduce and discuss four groups of tissue-specific promoters (50 promoters in total) and six groups of condition-dependent promoters (27 promoters). These promoters can be utilized to fine-tune desirable agronomic traits and develop crops with tolerance to various stresses, enhanced nutritional value, and advanced productivity.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV), a pathogen for chronic liver infection, afflicts more than 350 million people world-wide. The effective way to control the virus is to take HBV vaccine. Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) is an effective protective antigen suitable for vaccine development. At present, "edible" vaccine based on transgenic plants is one of the most promising directions in novel types of vaccines. HBsAg production from transgenic plants has been carried out, and the transgenic plant expression systems have developed from model plants (such as tobacco, potato and tomato) to other various plant platforms. Crude or purified extracts of transformed plants have been found to conduct immunological responses and clinical trials for hepatitis B, which gave the researches of plant-based HBsAg production a big boost. The aim of this review was to summarize the recent data about plant-based HBsAg development including molecular biology of HBsAg gene, selection of expression vector, the expression of HBsAg gene in plants, as well as corresponding immunological responses in animal models or human.
Salinity which covers vast areas of the world is increasing every year. But some plants like madder can grow in these areas. Madder (Rubia tinctorum) is a perennial plant species from the Rubiaceae family. In this study, madder plants were first treated by different concentration of NaCl (100, 200, 300, and 400 mM). Then gene expression of salinity stress was studied. For gene study, vacuolar H+-pyrophosphatase pump (AVP) and tonoplast Na+/H+ antiporters (NHX) from madder plant were isolated and sequenced. Analyzing protein sequences of these genes demonstrated that the protein sequences have high similarity with the same genes in other plants. Constructing phylogenetic trees based on the protein sequences of the AVP and NHX genes, we found high similarity with Coffea arabica and Capsicum annuum, respectively. Studying gene expression of the AVP and NHX under the condition of salt stress revealed that the genes were up-regulated, which continues up to 400 mM of salt concentration.
A safety assessment process exists for genetically engineered crops that includes the evaluation of the expressed protein for allergenic potential. The objectives of this evaluation are twofold: (1) to protect allergic consumers from exposure to known allergenic or cross-reactive proteins, and (2) protect the general population from risks associated with the introduction of genes encoding proteins that are likely to become food allergens. The first systematic approach to address these concerns was formulated by Metcalfe et al. [Metcalfe, D.D., Astwood, J.D., Townsend, R., Sampson, H.A., Taylor, S.L., and Fuchs, R.L. 1996. Assessment of the allergenic potential of foods from genetically engineered crop plants. Crit. Rev. Food Sci. Nutr. 36(5), 165-186.] and subsequently Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations/World Health Organization (FAO/WHO) [FAO/WHO, 2001. Evaluation of allergenicity of genetically modified foods. Report of a Joint FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on Allergenicity of Foods Derived from Biotechnology. January 22-25, 2001. Rome, Italy]. More recently, Codex [Codex Alimentarius Commission, 2003. Alinorm 03/34: Joint FAO/WHO Food Standard Programme, Codex Alimentarius Commission, Twenty-Fifth Session, Rome, Italy, 30 June-5 July, 2003. Appendix III, Guideline for the conduct of food safety assessment of foods derived from recombinant-DNA plants, and Appendix IV, Annex on the assessment of possible allergenicity. pp. 47-60], noting that no single factor is recognized as an identifier for protein allergenicity, suggested a weight of evidence approach be conducted that takes into account a variety of factors and approaches for an overall assessment of allergenic potential. These various recommendations are based on what is known about allergens, including the history of exposure and safety of the gene(s) source; amino acid sequence identity to human allergens; stability to pepsin digestion in vitro; protein abundance in the crop and processing effects; and when appropriate, specific IgE binding studies or skin-prick testing. Similarities and differences between these various suggested recommendations, as well as data gaps, are discussed. The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)'s Office of Research and Development (ORD) has initiated a targeted research effort to address data gaps and improve the various recommended methods/endpoints for assessing the allergenic risks associated with plant incorporated pesticides (PIPs) through both intramural and extramural (grant supported) research. The areas of primary focus for EPA include: (1) development and evaluation of animal models; (2) targeted or specific serological assays; and (3) structure-activity relationships. Details on the current as well as proposed EPA funded research are discussed. More recently US EPA has partnered with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease (NIAID), National Institutes of Health to support research in areas of mutual interest with respect to food allergy.
Tuberculosis (TB), caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, remains a major cause of mortality and morbidity worldwide. One-third of the world population is infected with M. tuberculosis, and about 15 million people with latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) reside in the United States. An estimated 10% of individuals with LTBI are at risk of progressing to active disease. Loss of body mass, or wasting, accompanied by a significant reduction of body fat is often associated with active TB disease and is considered to be immunosuppressive and a major determinant of severity and outcome of disease. While the lungs are the primary site of M. tuberculosis infection and TB manifestation, recent reports have shown that adipose tissue serves as an important reservoir for M. tuberculosis In this article, we investigated the association between M. tuberculosis infection, adipose tissue, and TB disease progression using a transgenic inducible "fatless" model system, the FAT-ATTAC (fat apoptosis through targeted activation of caspase 8) mouse. By selectively ablating fat tissue during M. tuberculosis infection, we directly tested the role of fat cell loss and adipose tissue physiology in regulating pulmonary pathology, bacterial burden, and immune status. Our results confirm the presence of M. tuberculosis in fat tissue after aerosol infection of mice and show that loss of fat cells is associated with an increase in pulmonary M. tuberculosis burden and pathology. We conclude that acute loss of adipose tissue during LTBI may predispose the host to active TB disease.IMPORTANCE Although the lungs are the port of entry and the predominant site of TB disease manifestation, we and others have demonstrated that M. tuberculosis also persists in adipose tissue of aerosol-infected animals and directly or indirectly alters adipose tissue physiology, which in turn alters whole-body immuno-metabolic homeostasis. Our present report demonstrates a direct effect of loss of adipocytes (fat cells) on promoting the severity of pulmonary pathogenesis during TB, advancing our understanding of the pathogenic interactions between wasting and TB activation/reactivation.
Alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) is a high-quality forage crop widely grown throughout the world. This chapter describes an efficient protocol that allows for the generation of large number of transgenic alfalfa plants by sonication-assisted Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Binary vectors carrying different selectable marker genes that confer resistance to phosphinothricin (bar), kanamycin (npt II), or hygromycin (hph) were used to generate transgenic alfalfa plants. Intact trifoliates collected from clonally propagated plants in the greenhouse were sterilized with bleach and then inoculated with Agrobacterium strain EHA105. More than 80 % of infected leaf pieces could produce rooted transgenic plants in 4-5 months after Agrobacterium-mediated transformation.
Aquaculture, the fastest growing food-producing sector, now accounts for nearly 50 % of the world's food fish (FAO in The state of world fisheries and aquaculture. FAO, Rome, 2010). The global aquaculture production of food fish reached 62.7 million tonnes in 2011 and is continuously increasing with an estimated production of food fish of 66.5 million tonnes in 2012 (a 9.4 % increase in 1 year, FAO, www.fao.org/fishery/topic/16140 ). Aquaculture is not only important for sustainable protein-based food fish production but also for the aquaculture industry and economy worldwide. Disease prevention is the key issue to maintain a sustainable development of aquaculture. Widespread use of antibiotics in aquaculture has led to the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and the accumulation of antibiotics in the environment, resulting in water and soil pollution. Thus, vaccination is the most effective and environmentally-friendly approach to combat diseases in aquaculture to manage fish health. Furthermore, when compared to >760 vaccines against human diseases, there are only about 30 fish vaccines commercially available, suggesting the urgent need for development and cost-effective production of fish vaccines for managing fish health, especially in the fast growing fish farming in Asia where profit is minimal and therefore given high priority. Plant genetic engineering has made significant contributions to production of biotech crops for food, feed, valuable recombinant proteins etc. in the past three decades. The use of plants for vaccine production offers several advantages such as low cost, safety and easy scaling up. To date a large number of plant-derived vaccines, antibodies and therapeutic proteins have been produced for human health, of which a few have been made commercially available. However, the development of animal vaccines in plants, especially fish vaccines by genetic engineering, has not yet been addressed. Therefore, there is a need to exploit plant biotechnology for cost effective fish vaccine development in plants, in particular, edible crops for oral fish vaccines. This review provides insight into (1) the current status of fish vaccine and vaccination in aquaculture, (2) plant biotechnology and edible crops for fish vaccines for oral administration, (3) regulatory constraints and (4) conclusions and future perspectives.
The control of transgene expression is vital both for the elucidation of gene function and for the engineering of transgenic crops. Given the dominance of the Triticeae cereals in the agricultural economy of the temperate world, the development of well-performing transgene expression systems of known functionality is of primary importance. Transgenes can be expressed either transiently or stably. Transient expression systems based on direct or virus-mediated gene transfer are particularly useful in situations where the need is to rapidly screen large numbers of genes. However, an unequivocal understanding of gene function generally requires that a transgene functions throughout the plant's life and is transmitted through the sexual cycle, since this alone allows its effect to be decoupled from the plant's response to the generally stressful gene transfer event. Temporal, spatial and quantitative control of a transgene's expression depends on its regulatory environment, which includes both its promoter and certain associated untranslated region sequences. While many transgenic approaches aim to manipulate plant phenotype via ectopic gene expression, a transgene sequence can be also configured to down-regulate the expression of its endogenous counterpart, a strategy which exploits the natural gene silencing machinery of plants. In this review, current technical opportunities for controlling transgene expression in the Triticeae species are described. Apart from protocols for transient and stable gene transfer, the choice of promoters and other untranslated regulatory elements, we also consider signal peptides, as they too govern the abundance and particularly the sub-cellular localization of transgene products.
The elegant mechanisms by which naturally occurring selfish genetic elements, such as transposable elements, meiotic drive genes, homing endonuclease genes and Wolbachia, spread at the expense of their hosts provide some of the most fascinating and remarkable subjects in evolutionary genetics. These elements also have enormous untapped potential to be used in the control of some of the world's most devastating diseases. Effective gene drive systems for spreading genes that can block the transmission of insect-borne pathogens are much needed. Here we explore the potential of natural gene drive systems and discuss the artificial constructs that could be envisaged for this purpose.
Background:                       More than half of the world's population suffers from epidemic diseases that are spread by mosquitoes. The primary strategy used to stop the spread of mosquito-borne diseases is vector control. Interference RNA (RNAi) is a powerful tool for controlling insect populations and may be less susceptible to insect resistance than other strategies. However, public concerns have been raised because of the transfer of antibiotic resistance marker genes to environmental microorganisms after integration into the recipient genome, thus allowing the pathogen to acquire resistance. Therefore, in the present study, we modified the 3-hydroxykynurenine transaminase (3hkt) and hormone receptor 3 (hr3) RNAi vectors to remove antibiotic resistance marker genes and retain the expression cassette of the inverse repeat sequence of the 3hkt/hr3 target gene. This recombinant microalgal marker-free RNAi insecticide was subsequently added to the suburban water in a simulated-field trial to test its ability to control mosquito population.                  Methods:                       The expression cassette of the 3hkt/hr3 inverted repeat sequence and a DNA fragment of the argininosuccinate lyase gene without the ampicillin resistance gene were obtained using restriction enzyme digestion and recovery. After the cotransformation of Chlamydomonas, the recombinant algae was then employed to feed Aedes albopictus larvae. Ten and 300 larvae were used in small- and large-scale laboratory Ae.albopictus feeding trials, respectively. Simulated field trials were conducted using Meishe River water that was complemented with recombinant Chlamydomonas. Moreover, the impact of recombinant microalgae on phytoplankton and zooplankton in the released water was explored via high-throughput sequencing.                  Results:                       The marker-free RNAi-recombinant Chlamydomonas effectively silenced the 3hkt/hr3 target gene, resulting in the inhibition of Ae. albopictus development and also in the high rate of Ae. albopictus larvae mortality in the laboratory and simulated field trials. In addition, the results confirmed that the effect of recombinant Chlamydomonas on plankton in the released water was similar to that of the nontransgenic Chlamydomonas, which could reduce the abundance and species of plankton.                  Conclusions:                       The marker-free RNAi-recombinant Chlamydomonas are highly lethal to the Ae. albopictus mosquito, and their effect on plankton in released water is similar to that of the nontransgenic algal strains, which reduces the abundance and species of plankton. Thus, marker-free recombinant Chlamydomonas can be used for mosquito biorational control and mosquito-borne disease prevention.
The series of events that led to the discovery of aflatoxin as a potent carcinogen, its biosynthesis, mechanism of action, structure-function relationship provide interesting insight into the economical and technological factors involved in the development of an effective control measure for the toxin. Scientists all over the world are making continuous efforts to explore a generalized process of detoxification, which can bring down the toxin content in heterogenous commodities to a threshold level. In this article biological control methods with special emphasis on in vivo and in vitro enzymatic detoxification of aflatoxin have been reviewed. Future areas of research involving large-scale enzymatic detoxification and modified atmosphere storage are also discussed.
The commercial launch of glyphosate-resistant soybeans in 1996 signaled the beginning of a new era in weed management in row crops. Today, over 80% of the soybeans grown in the USA are glyphosate resistant. Since that time, many crops have been transformed that have allowed crop applications of many classes of herbicide chemistries. Crops currently under production include maize, soybean, cotton and canola. Transformation technology and selection methods have improved and the rate of development as well as the breadth of crops being considered as commercial targets has increased. On the basis of recent adoption rates by growers around the world, it appears that glyphosate-resistant crops will continue to grow in number and in hectares planted. However, global public acceptance of biotechnology-derived products will continue to impact the rate of adoption of this and other new innovations derived from transformation technology.
Recent advances in molecular biology and plant biotechnology have shifted the concept of growing crops as a food source to serving as a bioreactor for the production of therapeutic recombinant proteins. Plants are potential biopharming factories because they are capable of producing unlimited numbers and amounts of recombinant proteins safely and inexpensively. In the last two decades, plant production systems have been developed for monoclonal antibody production, which has been useful in passive immunization of viral or bacterial diseases. Recently, a recombinant monoclonal antibody for rabies prophylaxis was produced in transgenic plants. Rabies virus epidemics remain still problematic throughout the world, and adequate treatment has been hampered by the worldwide shortage and high cost of prophylactic antibodies such as HRIG. Successful mass production of this monoclonal antibody in plants might help to overcome these problems. An effective plant production system for recombinant biologicals requires the appropriate heterologous plant expression system, the optimal combination of gene expression regulatory elements, control of post-translational processing of recombinant products, and efficient purification methods for product recovery. This review discusses recent biotechnology developments for plant-derived monoclonal antibodies and discusses these products as a promising approach to rabies prophylaxis and the consequence for global health benefits.
Cotton and corn plants with insect resistance traits introduced through biotechnological methods and derived from the bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) have been widely adopted since they were first introduced in 1996. Because of concerns about resistance evolving to these Bt crops, they have been released with associated IRM programs that employ multiple components and reflect the input of academic, industrial and regulatory experts. This paper summarizes the current status of Bt crop technologies in cotton and corn, the principles of IRM for Bt crops and what they mean for the design of IRM programs. It describes how these IRM programs have been implemented and some of the key factors affecting successful implementation. Finally, it suggests how they may evolve to properly steward these traits in different geographies around the world. The limited number of reported cases of resistance after more than 15 years of intensive global use of Bt crops suggest that this exercise has been broadly successful. Where resistance issues have been observed, they have been associated with first generation technologies and incomplete or compromised IRM programs (i.e., inadequate structured refuge). Next generation technologies with multiple pyramided modes of action, together with the implementation of IRM strategies that are more dependent upon manufacturing and less dependent upon grower behavior, such as seed mixes, should further enhance IRM programs for Bt crops.
Several laboratories have used recombinant DNA technology in plant breeding to improve compositional, processing, and agronomic characteristics of plants. These transformed plants have been extensively tested in field trials, have gained full regulatory approvals and are currently being marketed in a number of countries around the world. This paper briefly summarizes the approach used to assure the safety of foods and feeds derived from these genetically modified crops, as exemplified by data on Roundup Ready soybeans that has been developed by Monsanto Company using biotechnology in order to confer tolerance to glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup herbicide, by the production of the CP4 enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase protein. The results of the studies demonstrate that Roundup Ready soybeans are as safe as traditional soybeans with respect to food and feed safety.
Aedes albopictus is one of the most invasive insect species in the world and an effective vector for many important arboviruses. We reported previously that Ae. albopictus Nix (AalNix) is the male-determining factor of this species. However, whether AalNix alone is sufficient to initiate male development is unknown. Transgenic lines that express each of the three AalNix isoforms from the native promoter were obtained using piggyBac transformation. We verified the stable expression of AalNix isoforms in the transgenic lines and confirm that one isoform, AalNix3&4, is sufficient to convert females into fertile males (pseudo-males) that are indistinguishable from wild-type males. We also established a stable sex-converted female mosquito strain, AalNix3&4-♂4-pseudo-male. The pseudo-male mosquitoes can fly and mate normally with wild-type female, although their mating competitiveness is lower than wild-type. This work further clarifies the role of AalNix in the sex determination pathway and will facilitate the development of Ae. albopictus control strategies that rely on male-only releases such as SIT and sex-ratio distortion.
Rice (Oryza sativa L.), the major staple food crop of the world, faces a severe threat from widespread drought. The development of drought-tolerant rice varieties is considered a feasible option to counteract drought stress. The screening of rice germplasm under drought and its characterization at the morphological, genetic, and molecular levels revealed the existence of genetic variation for drought tolerance within the rice gene pool. The improvements made in managed drought screening and selection for grain yield under drought have significantly contributed to progress in drought breeding programs. The availability of rice genome sequence information, genome-wide molecular markers, and low-cost genotyping platforms now makes it possible to routinely apply marker-assisted breeding approaches to improve grain yield under drought. Grain yield QTLs with a large and consistent effect under drought have been indentified and successfully pyramided in popular rice mega-varieties. Various rice functional genomics resources, databases, tools, and recent advances in "-omics" are facilitating the characterization of genes and pathways involved in drought tolerance, providing the basis for candidate gene identification and allele mining. The transgenic approach is successful in generating drought tolerance in rice under controlled conditions, but field-level testing is necessary. Genomics-assisted drought breeding approaches hold great promise, but a well-planned integration with standardized phenotyping is highly essential to exploit their full potential.
Background:                       Potato is a staple food in the diet of the world's population and also being used as animal feed. Compared to other crops, however, potato tubers are relatively poor in the essential amino acid, methionine. Our aim was to increase the methionine content of tubers by co-expressing a gene involved in methionine synthesis with a gene encoding a methionine-rich storage protein in potato plants.                  Results:                       In higher plants, cystathionine gamma-synthase (CgS) is the first enzyme specific to methionine biosynthesis. We attempted to increase the methionine content of tubers by expressing the deleted form of the Arabidopsis CgS (CgSDelta90), which is not regulated by methionine, in potato plants. To increase the incorporation of free methionine into a storage protein the CgSDelta90 was co-transformed with the methionine-rich 15-kD beta-zein. Results demonstrated a 2- to 6-fold increase in the free methionine content and in the methionine content of the zein-containing protein fraction of the transgenic tubers. In addition, in line with higher methionine content, the amounts of soluble isoleucine and serine were also increased. However, all of the lines with high level of CgSDelta90 expression were phenotypically abnormal showing severe growth retardation, changes in leaf architecture and 40- to 60% reduction in tuber yield. Furthermore, the colour of the transgenic tubers was altered due to the reduced amounts of anthocyanin pigments. The mRNA levels of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL), the enzyme catalysing the first step of anthocyanin synthesis, were decreased.                  Conclusion:                       Ectopic expression of CgSDelta90 increases the methionine content of tubers, however, results in phenotypic aberrations in potato. Co-expression of the 15-kD beta-zein with CgSDelta90 results in elevation of protein-bound methionine content of tubers, but can not overcome the phenotypical changes caused by CgSDelta90 and can not significantly improve the nutritional value of tubers. The level of PAL mRNA and consequently the amount of anthocyanin pigments are reduced in the CgSDelta90 transgenic tubers suggesting that methionine synthesis and production of anthocyanins is linked.
Genetically modified soybeans are the world's most important genetically modified agricultural product. At present, the traditional methods for identifying genetically modified and non-transgenic soybeans are time-consuming, costly, and complicated to operate, which cannot meet the needs of practical applications. Therefore, it is necessary to discover a fast and accurate method for identifying transgenic soybeans. Terahertz (THz) time domain spectra were collected in sequence from 225 transgenic and non-transgenic soybean samples. Fourier transform was used to convert the terahertz time domain spectrum into a THz frequency domain spectrum with a frequency range of 0.1-2.5 THz. Firstly, the interval partial least squares (iPLS) method was used to remove interference spectral bands and select appropriate spectral intervals. Secondly, 168 samples were selected as the calibration set. Discriminant partial least squares (DPLS), Grid Search support vector machine (Grid Search-SVM) and principal component analysis back propagation neural network (PCA-BPNN) were used to establish a qualitative identification model. Afterwards, 57 test set samples were predicted. By comparing the experimental results, it was found that iPLS could effectively screen and remove the interference THz band, which was more helpful to improve the efficiency and accuracy of the identification model. After the iPLS and mean center pre-treatment technology, the Grid Search-SVM identification model had the best identification effect, with a total accuracy rate of 98.25% (transgenic identification rate was 96.15%, non-transgenic identification rate was 100%). This study shows that after selecting spectra from iPLS, THz spectroscopy combined with chemometrics can more accurately, quickly, and efficiently identify transgenic and non-transgenic soybeans.
Arsenic (As), classified as a "metalloid" element, is well known for its carcinogenicity and other toxic effects to humans. Arsenic exposure in plants results in the alteration of the physiochemical and biological properties and consequently, loss of crop yield. Being a staple food for half of the world's population, the consumption of As-contaminated rice grain by humans may pose serious health issues and risks for food security. In this study, we have described the principal understanding of the molecular basis of arsenic toxicity and accumulation in plant parts. We described the measures for decreasing As accumulation in rice and understanding the mechanism and transport of As uptake, its transport from root to shoot to rice grain, its metabolism, detoxification, as well as the mechanisms lying behind its accumulation in rice grains. There are various checkpoints, such as the tuning of AsV/Pi specific Pi transporters, arsenate reductase, transporters that are involved in the efflux of As to either the vacuole or outside the cell, xylem loading, loading and unloading to the phloem, and transporters involved in the loading of As to grain, that can be targeted to reduce As accumulation in rice grain. Genes/proteins involved in As detoxification, particularly the glutathione (GSH) biosynthesis pathway, phytochelatin (PC) synthesis, and arsenic methyltransferase, also provide a great pool of pathways that can also be castellated for the low As in rice grains. Paddy rice is also used as fodder for animals, enhancing vacuolar sequestration and using constitutive promoters, which may be of concern for animal health. Therefore, using a root-specific promoter and/or converting inorganic arsenic into volatile organic arsenic might be a better strategy for low As in grain. Furthermore, in this review, the other specific approaches, such as bio-remediation, bio-augmentation practices, and molecular breeding, which have great potential to reduce As uptake from soil to rice grains, have also been highlighted.
The pyramided genetically modified (GM) soybean [Glycine max L. (Merr.)] MON87751 × MON87708 × MON87701 × MON89788, expressing Cry1A.105, Cry2Ab2, and Cry1Ac from Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner, was approved for commercial use in Brazil. We conducted laboratory, greenhouse, and field studies to assess the efficacy of this Bt soybean against key soybean lepidopteran pests. Neonates of Anticarsia gemmatalis (Hübner) (Lepidoptera: Erebidae), Chrysodeixis includens (Walker), and Helicoverpa armigera (Hübner) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) were exposed to Bt proteins in diet-overlay bioassays. MON87751 × MON87708 × MON87701 × MON89788 soybean and individual components were evaluated in laboratory (leaf disc), greenhouse (high artificial infestations), and in field conditions (natural infestations). Neonates of A. gemmatalis, C. includens, and H. armigera were highly susceptible to Cry1A.105 (LC50 from 0.79 to 48.22 ng/cm2), Cry2Ab2 (LC50 from 1.24 to 8.36 ng/cm2), and Cry1Ac (LC50 from 0.15 to 5.07 ng/cm2) in diet-overlay bioassays. In laboratory leaf disc bioassays and greenhouse trials, MON87751 × MON87708 × MON87701 × MON89788 soybean as well as the individual components were highly effective in controlling A. gemmatalis, C. includens, and H. armigera. Similarly, under field conditions, the pyramided genotypes expressing Cry1A.105, Cry2Ab2, and Cry1Ac were highly effective at protecting soybean against C. includens. We concluded that the individual Bt proteins expressed by GM soybean MON87751 × MON87708 × MON87701 × MON89788 killed all or nearly all the susceptible A. gemmatalis, C. includens, and H. armigera, fulfilling one important criterion for successfully delaying resistance to pyramided Bt crops.
Transgenic fish, owing to a number of advantages which they offer over other species, are proving to be valuable model systems for the study of gene regulation and development genetics in addition to being useful targets for the genetic manipulation of commercially important traits. Despite having begun only a decade ago, the production of transgenic fish has become commonplace in a number of laboratories world-wide and considerable progress has been made. In this review, we initially consider the various regulatory elements and coding genes which have been used in fish, and subsequently discuss and compare both the transient and long-term fate and expression patterns of injected DNA sequences in the context of the different factors which are likely to have an effect on the expression of transgenes.
Knocking down GW2 enhances grain size by regulating genes encoding the synthesis of cytokinin, gibberellin, starch and cell wall. Raising crop yield is a priority task in the light of the continuing growth of the world's population and the inexorable loss of arable land to urbanization. Here, the RNAi approach was taken to reduce the abundance of Grain Weight 2 (GW2) transcript in the durum wheat cultivar Svevo. The effect of the knockdown was to increase the grains' starch content by 10-40%, their width by 4-13% and their surface area by 3-5%. Transcriptomic profiling, based on a quantitative real-time PCR platform, revealed that the transcript abundance of genes encoding both cytokinin dehydrogenase 1 and the large subunit of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase was markedly increased in the transgenic lines, whereas that of the genes encoding cytokinin dehydrogenase 2 and gibberellin 3-oxidase was reduced. A proteomic analysis of the non-storage fraction extracted from mature grains detected that eleven proteins were differentially represented in the transgenic compared to wild-type grain: some of these were involved, or at least potentially involved, in cell wall development, suggesting a role of GW2 in the regulation of cell division in the wheat grain.
The monitoring of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) is a primary step of GMO regulation. However, there is presently a lack of effective and high-throughput methodologies for specifically and sensitively monitoring most of the commercialized GMOs. Herein, we developed a multiplex amplification on a chip with readout on an oligo microarray (MACRO) system specifically for convenient GMO monitoring. This system is composed of a microchip for multiplex amplification and an oligo microarray for the readout of multiple amplicons, containing a total of 91 targets (18 universal elements, 20 exogenous genes, 45 events, and 8 endogenous reference genes) that covers 97.1% of all GM events that have been commercialized up to 2012. We demonstrate that the specificity of MACRO is ~100%, with a limit of detection (LOD) that is suitable for real-world applications. Moreover, the results obtained of simulated complex samples and blind samples with MACRO were 100% consistent with expectations and the results of independently performed real-time PCRs, respectively. Thus, we believe MACRO is the first system that can be applied for effectively monitoring the majority of the commercialized GMOs in a single test.
Evolution of resistance to genetically modified Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) crops in pest populations is a major threat to the sustainability of the technology. Incidents of field resistance that have led to control problems of Bt crops or significantly reduced susceptibility of individual Bt proteins in pyramided plants have increased dramatically across the world, especially in recent years. Analysis of globally published data showed that 61.5% and 60.0% of the cases of resistance with major alleles that allowed homozygous resistant genotypes to survival on Bt crops were functionally non-recessive and did not involve fitness costs, respectively. Dominance levels (DFLs) measured on Bt plants ranged from -0.02 to 1.56 with a mean (± sem) of 0.35 ± 0.13 for the 13 cases of single-gene resistance to Bt plants that have been evaluated. Among these, all six cases with field control problems were functionally non-recessive with a mean DFL of 0.63 ± 0.24, which was significantly greater than the DFL (0.11 ± 0.07) of the seven cases without field resistance. In addition, index of fitness costs (IFC) of major resistance was calculated for each case based on the fitness of resistant (R'R') and heterozygous (R'S') genotypes on non-Bt plants divided by the fitness of their susceptible (S'S') counterparts. The estimated IFCs for 15 cases of single-gene resistance were similar for R'R' and R'S', and for the cases with and without field resistance; and the values averaged 1.10 ± 0.12 for R'R' and 1.20 ± 0.18 for R'S'. Limited published data suggest that resistance of insects to dual/multiple-gene Bt crops is likely to be more recessive than the related single-gene resistance, but their IFCs are similar. The quantitative analysis of the global data documents that the prevalence of non-recessive resistance has played an essential role in the widespread evolution of resistance to Bt crops, while the lack of fitness costs is apparently not as critical as the non-recessive resistance. The results suggest that planting of 'high dose' traits is an effective method for Bt crop IRM and more comprehensive management strategies that are also effective for functionally non-recessive resistance should be deployed.
Carbofuran is a carbamate pesticide, widely used in agricultural practices to increase crop productivity. In mammals, carbofuran is known to cause several untoward effects, such as apoptosis in the hippocampal neuron, oxidative stress, loss of memory and chromosomal anomalies. Most of these effects are implicated with cellular senescence. Therefore, the present study aimed to determine the effect of carbofuran on cellular senescence and biological ageing. Spinster homolog 1 (Spns1) is a transmembrane transporter, regulates autolysosomal biogenesis and plays a role in cellular senescence and survival. Using senescence-associated β-galactosidase staining, we found that carbofuran accelerates the cellular senescence in spns1 mutant zebrafish. The yolk opaqueness, a premature ageing phenotype in zebrafish embryos, was accelerated by carbofuran treatment. In the survival study, carbofuran shortened the life span of spns1 mutant zebrafish. Autophagy is the cellular lysosomal degradation, usually up-regulated in the senescent cells. To know the impact of carbofuran exposure on autophagy progress, we established a double-transgenic zebrafish line, harbouring EGFP-tagged LC3-II and mCherry-tagged Lamp1 on spns1 mutant background, whereas we found, carbofuran exposure synergistically accelerates autolysosome formation with insufficient lysosome-mediated degradation. Our data collectively suggest that carbofuran exposure synergistically accelerates the cellular senescence and affects biological ageing in spns1 defective animals.
Soybean (Glycine max L.) is an important oil, food and economic crop in the world. High salinity severely affects the growth and yield of soybean. Overexpressing a specific anti-retroviral transcription factor by biotechnology is an effective way to cultivate new stress-tolerant varieties of soybean. TGA transcription factor is a subfamily of bZIP and plays an important role in abiotic stress responses. A TGA subfamily gene GmTGA13 was cloned and the gene expression, subcellular localization and transcriptional activity were measured. Through the Ag. tumefaciens mediated flower dip method and the Ag. rhizogenes mediated transformation of soybean hairy roots, the transgenic Arabidopsis and the 'combination' soybean plants of overexpressing GmTGA13 were obtained. The two types of transgenic plants were treated with salt stress respectively, and the related physiological indexes were determined. Furthermore, the expression levels of five abiotic stress responsive genes were analyzed in GmTGA13 overexpression hairy roots. GmTGA13 gene was highly expressed in roots and significantly induced by saline stress in soybean. GmTGA13 encoded a nuclear localization protein and had transcriptional activation activity. Overexpression of GmTGA13 enhanced the saline stress tolerance of transgenic Arabidopsis and the 'combination' soybean plants. Furthermore, overexpression of GmTGA13 enhanced the expression of the stress responsive genes in transgenic soybean hairy roots. In conclusion, overexpression of GmTGA13 is beneficial to the absorption of K+ and Ca2+ by the cell, thereby regulating the ion homeostasis in the cell balance. GmTGA13 enhanced salt resistance of plants by regulating the expression of many stress-responsive genes.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease in the world. However, there is no effective drug to cure it. Caesalmin C is a cassane-type diterpenoid abundant in Caesalpinia bonduc (Linn.) Roxb. In this study, we investigated the effect of caesalmin C on Aβ-induced toxicity and possible mechanisms in the transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans AD model. Our results showed that caesalmin C significantly alleviated the Aβ-induced paralysis phenotype in transgenic CL4176 strain C. elegans. Caesalmin C dramatically reduced the content of Aβ monomers, oligomers, and deposited spots in AD C. elegans. In addition, mRNA levels of sod-3, gst-4, and rpt-3 were up-regulated, and mRNA levels of ace-1 were down-regulated in nematodes treated with caesalmin C. The results of the RNAi assay showed that the inhibitory effect of caesalmin C on the nematode paralysis phenotype required the DAF-16 signaling pathway, but not SKN-1 and HSF-1. Further evidence suggested that caesalmin C may also have the effect of inhibiting acetylcholinesterase (AchE) and upregulating proteasome activity. These findings suggest that caesalmin C delays the progression of AD in C. elegans via the DAF-16 signaling pathway and that it could be developed into a promising medication to treat AD.
Riboflavin deficiency is common in many parts of the world, particularly in developing countries. The use of riboflavin-producing strains in the production of dairy products such as fermented milks, yogurts, and cheeses is feasible and economically attractive because it would decrease the costs involved during conventional vitamin fortification and satisfy consumer demands for healthier foods. The present study was conducted to assess in a rat bioassay the response of administration of milk fermented by modified Lactococcus lactis on the riboflavin status of deficient rats. Rats were fed a riboflavin-deficient diet during 21 d after which this same diet was supplemented with milk fermented by Lactoccus lactis pNZGBAH, a strain that overproduces riboflavin during fermentation. The novel fermented product, with increased levels of riboflavin, was able to eliminate most physiological manifestations of ariboflavinosis, such as stunted growth, elevated erythrocyte glutathione reductase activation coefficient values and hepatomegaly, that were observed using a riboflavin depletion-repletion model, whereas a product fermented with a nonriboflavin-producing strain did not show similar results. A safety assessment of this modified strain was performed by feeding rodents with the modified strain daily for 4 wk. This strain caused no detectable secondary effects. These results pave the way for analyzing the effect of similar riboflavin-overproducing lactic acid bacteria in human trials. The regular consumption of products with increased levels of riboflavin could help prevent deficiencies of this essential vitamin.
Genetic modification (GM) has been advocated as an alternative or complement to micronutrient interventions such as supplementation, fortification or dietary diversification. While proof-of-concept of various GM biofortified crops looks promising, the decision tree of policy makers is much more complex, and requires insight on their socio-economic impacts: Will it actually work? Is it financially sound? Will people accept it? Can it be implemented in a globalized world? This review shows that GM biofortification could effectively reduce the burden of micronutrient deficiencies, in an economically viable way, and is generally well received by target beneficiaries, despite some resistance and uncertainty. Practically, however, protectionist and/or unscientific regulations in some developed countries raise the (perceived) bar for implementation in target countries.
Nile tilapia, Oreochromis niloticus is the third most commonly farmed finfish species in the world, accounting for nearly 5% of global aquaculture production. In the past few decades much of the success of this species has been attributed to the development and distribution of Genetically Improved Farmed Tilapia (GIFT). Despite the increasing availability of GIFT, the productivity of small-scale farming remains highly variable, particularly in developing nations. Commercial fish-feed pellets can increase fish farm productivity; however, many small-scale farmers rely on other means of feeding fish due to the high cost and limited availability of commercial fish feed pellets. Therefore, understanding how locally-sourced feeds affect the production of GIFT is an important step towards improving feeding practices, particularly for farmers with low financial capital. This study used stable isotope analysis (SIA) and 16S rRNA gene sequencing to compare the effects of a locally-sourced vegetable-based diet and commercial pellet-based diets on the relative condition, nutrient assimilation patterns and gastrointestinal microbiota of GIFT. GIFT fed a locally-sourced diet were smaller, and in a significantly poorer condition than those fed with commercial fish feeds. SIA showed no differences in dietary carbon between the two diets; however, δ13C, poor fish condition and the abundance of specific bacterial taxa (of such as Fusobacteria) were correlated. SIA revealed that GIFT fed locally-sourced diets that predominantly consisted of vegetables were significantly enriched in δ15N despite a perceived lack of dietary protein. This enrichment suggests that GIFT fed a locally-sourced diet may be supplementing their diet via cannibalism, a behaviour representative of poor farming practice. Overall this study highlights the need to increase the availability of suitable GIFT feeds in developing nations. The development a low-cost feed alternative could improve the success of small-scale GIFT farmers in PNG, increasing both food and income security within the region.
GMO crops were introduced for commercial production in 1996. Since then, their use has increased rapidly. GMOs have primarily benefited large farms and multinational companies in Industrialised Countries and now is more and more debating their utilisation in Developing World. The objective of the present review is an analysis of this subject from a comprehensive point of view; in addition to that, the changes related to the nutritional content of transgenic foods will be treated. Despite the progress that has been made, the world food situation is still marked by mass hunger and chronic malnutrition. In particular micronutrient malnutrition, that means vitamin and mineral deficiencies, represents an important public health problem in several areas of the world. The "golden rice" bioengineered to contain beta-carotene, as a source of vitamin A is the most famous example of GM food used for reduction (or even to solve) of a public health problem. The expected results of this approach have presently not been achieved. Further studies are necessary to increase the general knowledge about GMOs and their long-term effects on human health. Collaborative attitude of different research sectors (private and public) and involvement of different sectors of society will be an added value for comprehension of the real impact of the application of modern biotechnology to food and agriculture systems.
Plant diseases are a major threat to the world food supply, as up to 15% of production is lost to pathogens. In the past, disease control and the generation of resistant plant lines protected against viral, bacterial or fungal pathogens, was achieved using conventional breeding based on crossings, mutant screenings and backcrossing. Many approaches in this field have failed or the resistance obtained has been rapidly broken by the pathogens. Recent advances in molecular biotechnology have made it possible to obtain and to modify genes that are useful for generating disease resistant crops. Several strategies, including expression of pathogen-derived sequences or anti-pathogenic agents, have been developed to engineer improved pathogen resistance in transgenic plants. Antibody-based resistance is a novel strategy for generating transgenic plants resistant to pathogens. Decades ago it was shown that polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies can neutralize viruses, bacteria and selected fungi. This approach has been improved recently by the development of recombinant antibodies (rAbs). Crop resistance can be engineered by the expression of pathogen-specific antibodies, antibody fragments or antibody fusion proteins. The advantages of this approach are that rAbs can be engineered against almost any target molecule, and it has been demonstrated that expression of functional pathogen-specific rAbs in plants confers effective pathogen protection. The efficacy of antibody-based resistance was first shown for plant viruses and its application to other plant pathogens is becoming more established. However, successful use of antibodies to generate plant pathogen resistance relies on appropriate target selection, careful antibody design, efficient antibody expression, stability and targeting to appropriate cellular compartments.
Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG) is the most studied probiotic bacterium in the world. It is used as a probiotic supplement in many foods, including various dairy products. However, LGG grows poorly in milk, as it neither metabolizes the main milk carbohydrate lactose nor degrades the major milk protein casein effectively. In this study, we made L. rhamnosus GG lactose and protease positive by conjugation with the dairy Lactococcus lactis strain NCDO 712 carrying the lactose-protease plasmid pLP712. A lactose-hydrolyzing transconjugant colony was obtained on agar containing lactose as the sole source of carbohydrates. By microscopic analysis and PCR with LGG- and pLP712-specific primers, the transconjugant was confirmed to have originated from LGG and to carry the plasmid pLP712. The transconjugant was named L. rhamnosus LAB49. The isolation of plasmids revealed that not only pLP712 but also other plasmids had been transferred from L. lactis into LGG during conjugation. With plasmid-specific PCR primers, four additional lactococcal plasmids were detected in LAB49. Proteolytic activity assay and SDS-PAGE analysis verified that L. rhamnosus LAB49 effectively degraded β-casein. In contrast to its parental strain, LGG, the ability of LAB49 to metabolize lactose and degrade casein enabled strong and fast growth in milk. As strains with new properties made by conjugation are not regarded as genetically modified organisms (GMOs), L. rhamnosus LAB49 could be beneficial in dairy fermentations as a probiotic starter culture.IMPORTANCE Probiotic strain Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG) is widely sold on the market as a probiotic or added as a supplement in dairy foods because of its benefits in human health. However, due to the deficiency of lactose and casein utilization, LGG does not grow well in milk. On the other hand, lactose intolerance and cow's milk protein allergy are the two major problems related to milk consumption. One option to help with these two conditions is the use of probiotic or lactose- and casein-hydrolyzing bacteria in dairy products. The purpose of this study was to equip LGG with lactose/casein-hydrolyzing ability by bacterial conjugation. As a result, we generated a non-GMO LGG derivative with improved properties and better growth in milk.
Kashmir Valley is a major saffron (Crocus sativus Kashmirianus) growing area of the world, second only to Iran in terms of production. In Kashmir, saffron is grown on uplands (termed in the local language as "Karewas"), which are lacustrine deposits located at an altitude of 1585 to 1677 m above mean sea level (amsl), under temperate climatic conditions. Kashmir, despite being one of the oldest historical saffron-producing areas, faces a rapid decline of saffron industry. Among many other factors responsible for decline of saffron industry the preponderance of erratic rainfalls and drought-like situation have become major challenges imposed by climate change. Saffron has a limited coverage area as it is grown as a 'niche crop' and is a recognized "geographical indication," growing under a narrow microclimatic condition. As such it has become a victim of climate change effects, which has the potential of jeopardizing the livelihood of thousands of farmers and traders associated with it. The paper discusses the potential and actual impact of climate change process on saffron cultivation in Kashmir; and the biotechnological measures to address these issues.
Vegetative storage proteins (VSPs) are known to serve as nitrogen reserves in many dicot plants but remain undiscovered in grasses, most widely grown group of crops globally. We identified and characterized a VSP in maize and demonstrated that its overexpression improved drought tolerance. Nitrogen supplementation selectively induced a mesophyll lipoxygenase (ZmLOX6), which was targeted to chloroplasts by a novel N-terminal transit peptide of 62 amino acids. When ectopically expressed under the control of various tissue-specific promoters, it accumulated to a fivefold higher level upon expression in the mesophyll cells than the wild-type plants. Constitutive expression or targeted expression specifically to the bundle sheath cells increased its accumulation by less than twofold. The overexpressed ZmLOX6 was remobilized from the leaves like other major proteins during grain development. Evaluated in the field over locations and years, transgenic hybrids overexpressing ZmLOX6 in the mesophyll cells significantly outyielded nontransgenic sibs under managed drought stress imposed at flowering. Additional storage of nitrogen as a VSP in maize leaves ameliorated the effect of drought on grain yield.
Improving nutritional health is one of the major socio-economic challenges of the 21st century, especially with the continuously growing and ageing world population. Folate deficiency is an important and underestimated problem of micronutrient malnutrition affecting billions of people worldwide. More and more countries are adapting policies to fight folate deficiency, mostly by fortifying foods with folic acid. However, there is growing concern about this practice, calling for alternative or complementary strategies. In addition, fortification programmes are often inaccessible to remote and poor populations where folate deficiency is most prevalent. Enhancing folate content in staple crops by metabolic engineering is a promising, cost-effective strategy to eradicate folate malnutrition worldwide. Over the last decade, major progress has been made in this field. Nevertheless, engineering strategies have thus far been implemented on a handful of plant species only and need to be transferred to highly consumed staple crops to maximally reach target populations. Moreover, successful engineering strategies appear to be species-dependent, hence the need to adapt them in order to biofortify different staple crops with folate.
Transgenic soybean is the most widely grown genetically modified crop in the world, with herbicide resistance being the major modified trait. Microbial community is one of the most important indicators for soil quality. The effects of glyphosate-resistant transgenic soybean and glyphosate application on rhizospheric bacteria and rhizobia still remained unknown. In this study, with the non-transgenic parent Zhongdou 32 as control (CK), we investigated the effects of the G10-epsps transgenic glyphosate-resistance soybean SHZD32-01 without or with glyphosate application (abbreviated as GR and GR+G, respectively) on rhizospheric bacteria and rhizobia at different growth stages of soybean in field. Compared with CK, GR and GR+G had effects on soil pH, total organic carbon, total nitrogen and ammonium contents at the seedling and mature stages. GR significantly increased the abundance and diversity of soil rhizospheric bacterial community at the podding stage. GR+G significantly increased the abundance of soil rhizospheric bacterial community at the podding stage but decreased its diversity at the seeding and podding stages. GR and GR+G changed the relative abundance of dominant bacteria populations. Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi, Planctomycetes and Actinobacteria were generally the dominant ones among the three treatments across all growth stages. Furthermore, GR and GR+G changed the relative abundance of rhizobia but did not change that of soybean-nodulating rhizobia, Bradyrhizobium and Sinorhizobium. The relative abundance of rhizobia in GR+G was decreased significantly at the podding stage. The abundance of actinobacteria and rhizobia was mainly affected by soil pH. Glyphosate-resistant transgenic soybean without or with glyphosate application altered soil rhizospheric bacteria and rhizobia at the podding stage, but the effects disappeared along with the growth of soybean.
There is a growing interest to develop oral vaccines for infectious diseases, as it is the most convenient and effective way to attain mucosal immunity. Hepatitis B continues to be a major infectious disease in many developing countries despite the availability of recombinant vaccine. On a global scenario, Hepatitis B Virus infection is probably the single most prevalent cause of persistent viraemia in humans. There are about 350 million chronic carriers of HBV, which is about 5% of the total world population. It is estimated that 75-100 million of them will die of liver cirrhosis and/or hepatocellular carcinoma. Progress in plant genetic engineering has enabled the transfer of useful genes for desirable traits. The recent trend is to use this technique to exploit plants as biofactories for the production of therapeutic proteins including vaccines. Rapid progress has been made in this area to develop plant-based vaccines for hepatitis B. This review describes the expression, characterization, and immunogenicity studies of hepatitis B vaccines produced in recombinant plant systems and their implications for developing a plant-based vaccine.
Transgenic plants that are being developed for commercial cultivation must be tested under field conditions to monitor their effects on surrounding wildlife and conventional crops. Developers also use this opportunity to evaluate the performance of transgenic crops in a typical environment, although this is a matter of commercial necessity rather than regulatory compliance. Most countries have adapted existing regulations or developed new ones to deal specifically with transgenic crops and their commodities. The European Union (EU) is renowned, or perhaps notorious, for having the broadest and most stringent regulations governing such field trials in the world. This reflects its nominal adherence to the precautionary approach, which assumes all transgenic crops carry an inherent risk. Therefore, field trials in the EU need to demonstrate that the risk associated with deploying a transgenic crop has been reduced to the level where it is regarded as acceptable within the narrowly defined limits of the regulations developed and enforced (albeit inconsistently) by national and regional governments, that is, that there is no greater risk than growing an equivalent conventional crop. The involvement of national and regional competent authorities in the decision-making process can add multiple layers of bureaucracy to an already-intricate process. In this review, we use country-based case studies to show how the EU, national and regional regulations are implemented, and we propose strategies that could increase the efficiency of regulation without burdening developers with further unnecessary bureaucracy.
Vaccines offer efficient and cost-effective protection against a wide range of infectious diseases. Unfortunately, no effective vaccine is yet available against malaria, and this infection remains one of the most important causes of human morbidity and mortality in the developing world. Over the past two decades a number of candidate proteins for inclusion in a subunit vaccine have been identified. Malariologists believe that an effective malaria vaccine will need to include multiple proteins that induce protective immune responses against different stages of the Plasmodium life cycle. The construction of such multivalent vaccines is beset by considerable logistical difficulties, not least of which is how to deliver them to a population living in endemic areas. Compared with other routes of vaccine administration, oral delivery has several advantages that make it an attractive strategy for vaccine development. This review summarises the progress towards an oral vaccine delivery system for malaria and discusses the feasibility of this approach.
The adoption of genetically modified (GM) crops has increased dramatically during the last 3 years, and currently over 52 million hectares of GM crops are planted world-wide. Approximately 41 million hectares of GM crops planted are herbicide-resistant crops, which includes an estimated 33.3 million hectares of herbicide-resistant soybean. Herbicide-resistant maize, canola, cotton and soybean accounted for 77% of the GM crop hectares in 2001. However, sugarbeet, wheat, and as many as 14 other crops have transgenic herbicide-resistant cultivars that may be commercially available in the near future. There are many risks associated with the production of GM and herbicide-resistant crops, including problems with grain contamination, segregation and introgression of herbicide-resistant traits, marketplace acceptance and an increased reliance on herbicides for weed control. The latter issue is represented in the occurrence of weed population shifts, the evolution of herbicide-resistant weed populations and herbicide-resistant crops becoming volunteer weeds. Another issue is the ecological impact that simple weed management programs based on herbicide-resistant crops have on weed communities. Asiatic dayflower (Commelina cumminus L) common lambsquarters (Chenopodium album L) and wild buckwheat (Polygonum convolvulus L) are reported to be increasing in prominence in some agroecosystems due to the simple and significant selection pressure brought to bear by herbicide-resistant crops and the concomitant use of the herbicide. Finally, evolution of herbicide-resistant weed populations attributable to the herbicide-resistant crop/herbicide program has been observed. Examples of herbicide-resistant weeds include populations of horseweed (Conyza canadensis (L) Cronq) resistant to N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine (glyphosate). An important question is whether or not these problems represent significant economic issues for future agriculture.
A range of crops have been transformed with delta-endotoxin genes from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) to produce transgenic plants with high levels of resistance to lepidopteran pests. Parasitoids are important natural enemies of lepidopteran larvae and the effects of Bt plants on these non-target insects have to be investigated to avoid unnecessary disruption of biological control. This study investigated the effects of Cry1Ac-expressing transgenic oilseed rape (Brassica napus) on the solitary braconid endoparasitoid Cotesia plutellae in small-scale laboratory experiments. C. plutellae is an important natural enemy of the diamondback moth (Plutella xylostella), the most important pest of brassica crops world-wide. Bt oilseed rape caused 100% mortality of a Bt-susceptible P. xylostella strain but no mortality of the Bt-resistant P. xylostella strain NO-QA. C. plutellae eggs laid in Bt-susceptible hosts feeding on Bt leaves hatched but premature host mortality did not allow C. plutellae larvae to complete their development. In contrast, C. plutellae developed to maturity in Bt-resistant hosts fed on Bt oilseed rape leaves and there was no effect of Bt plants on percentage parasitism, time to emergence from hosts, time to adult emergence and percentage adult emergence from cocoons. Weights of female progeny after development in Bt-resistant hosts did not differ between plant types but male progeny was significantly heavier on wildtype plants in one of two experiments. The proportion of female progeny was significantly higher on Bt plants in the first experiment with Bt-resistant hosts but this effect was not observed again when the experiment was repeated.
Heat stress is a major growth-limiting factor for most crops over the world. Chitin elicitor receptor kinase 1 (CERK1) is a chitin/chitooligosaccharides receptor, and ERECTA (ER) plays a crucial role in plant resistance to heat stress. In the present study, a chitooligosaccharides-induced CERK1n-ERc fusion gene was designed and synthesized, in which the extracellular domain and transmembrane domain of CERK1 gene is connected with the response region of ER gene. We successfully constructed the CERK1n-ERc fusion gene by Overlap PCR and introduced it into Arabidopsis by Agrobacterium-medicated infection. Genetically modified (GM) plants had a greater germination rate and germination index, as well as a shorter mean germination time, indicating that they had a better thermotolerance compared with the wild-type (WT) lines under heat stress. Moreover, the GM lines showed a lower level of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and relative electrolyte leakage (REL), suggesting that they were in better state compared with the WT plants when exposed to high temperature. UPLC-MS/MS was employed to assess the phytohormone level, suggesting that the GM lines acquired a better thermotolerance via jasmonic acid (JA) signaling pathways. In general, we constructed a COS-induced fusion gene to enhance the thermotolerance of Arabidopsis during seed germination and postgermination growth.
Soybean (Glycine max) is a major contributor to the world oilseed production. Its seed oil content has been increased through soybean domestication and improvement. However, the genes underlying the selection are largely unknown. The present contribution analyzed the expression patterns of genes in the seed oil quantitative trait loci with strong selective sweep signals, then used association, functional study and population genetics to reveal a sucrose efflux transporter gene, GmSWEET39, controlling soybean seed oil content and under selection. GmSWEET39 is highly expressed in soybean seeds and encodes a plasma membrane-localized protein. Its expression level is positively correlated with soybean seed oil content. The variation in its promoter and coding sequence leads to different natural alleles of this gene. The GmSWEET39 allelic effects on total oil content were confirmed in the seeds of soybean recombinant inbred lines, transgenic Arabidopsis, and transgenic soybean hairy roots. The frequencies of its superior alleles increased from wild soybean to cultivated soybean, and are much higher in released soybean cultivars. The findings herein suggest that the sequence variation in GmSWEET39 affects its relative expression and oil content in soybean seeds, and GmSWEET39 has been selected to increase seed oil content during soybean domestication and improvement.
This study assesses the potential economic and environmental impacts that would arise if restrictions on glyphosate use resulted in the world no longer planting genetically modified herbicide tolerant (GM HT) crops. 'First round' impacts are the loss of farm level and aggregate impacts associated with the widespread use of GM HT crops (tolerant to glyphosate). There would be an annual loss of global farm income gains of $6.76 billion and lower levels of global soybean, corn and canola production equal to 18.6 million tonnes, 3.1 million tonnes and 1.44 million tonnes respectively. There would be an annual environmental loss associated with a net increase in the use of herbicides of 8.2 million kg of herbicide active ingredient (+1.7%), and a larger net negative environmental impact, as measured by the environmental impact quotient (EIQ 11 Kovach J et al1. ) indicator of a 12.4%. Also, there would be additional carbon emissions arising from increased fuel usage and decreased soil carbon sequestration, equal to the equivalent of adding 11.77 million cars to the roads. Global welfare impacts based on these farm level impacts (identified through use of the Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model GTAP-BIO) point to global production of soybeans and rapeseed falling by 3.7% and 0.7% respectively, partially offset by increases in other oilseeds (notably palm oil). World prices of all grains, oilseeds and sugar are expected to rise, especially soybeans (+5.4%) and rapeseed (+2%). The welfare impacts are mostly negative, with global welfare falling by $7,408 million per year. Land use changes will arise, with an additional cropping area of 762,000 ha, of which 53% derives from new land brought into cropping agriculture, including 167,000 of deforestation. These land use changes are likely to induce the generation of an additional 234,000 million kg of carbon dioxide emissions.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major public and socioeconomic problem throughout the world. The establishment of an effective and cost-effective TBI model for developing new therapeutic agents is challenging. Microglia are considered the resident macrophages of the central nervous system (CNS) that normally do not enter the brain. As the primary mediators of the innate immune response in the CNS, microglia play a critical role in neuroinflammation and secondary injury after TBI. In this study, we established an in vivo TBI zebrafish model using Tg(coro1a:EGFP) line where the green fluorescent protein-labeled microglia were present. We demonstrated that microglia accumulated rapidly in response to neuronal injuries. To clear away injured neurons and restore the CNS homeostasis, activated microglia secreted two types of functional cytokines, including pro-inflammatory interleukins (IL) of IL-1β and IL-6 and anti-inflammatory factors of IL-4 and IL-10 in the lesioned larvae. Cytidine 5'-Diphosphocholine (CDP-choline), as an effective and clinical neuroprotective drug, could further activate microglia, expressing high levels of il-1β, il-6, il-4, and il-10 in the TBI model. Moreover, CDP-choline reduced neuronal apoptosis and promoted neuronal proliferation around the lesioned site. Based on these results, the TBI model established in this study represents a suitable model for developing new therapeutic agents for CNS-associated diseases.
The past 10 years of clinical experience have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of recombinant clotting factors. With the adoption of prophylactic strategies, there has been considerable progress in avoiding the complications of hemophilia. Now, insights from our understanding of clotting factor structure and function, mechanisms of hemophilia and inhibitors, gene therapy advances and a worldwide demand for clotting factor concentrates leave us on the brink of embracing targeted bioengineering strategies to further improve hemophilia therapeutics. The ability to bioengineer recombinant clotting factors with improved function holds promise to overcome some of the limitations in current treatment, the high costs of therapy and increase availability to a broader world hemophilia population. Most research has been directed at overcoming the inherent limitations of rFVIII expression and the inhibitor response. This includes techniques to improve rFVIII biosynthesis and secretion, functional activity, half-life and antigenicity/immunogenicity. Some of these proteins have already reached commercialization and have been utilized in gene therapy strategies, while others are being evaluated in pre-clinical studies. These novel proteins partnered with advances in gene transfer vector design and delivery may ultimately achieve persistent expression of FVIII leading to an effective long-term treatment strategy for hemophilia A. In addition, these novel FVIII proteins could be partnered with new advances in alternative recombinant protein production in transgenic animals yielding an affordable, more abundant supply of rFVIII. Novel rFIX proteins are being considered for gene therapy strategies whereas novel rVIIa proteins are being evaluated to improve the potency and extend their plasma half-life. This review will summarize the status of current recombinant clotting factors and the development and challenges of recombinant clotting factors bioengineered for improved function.
Chronic health effects are increasing in the world such as cancers, hormonal, reproductive, nervous, or immune diseases, even in young people. During regulatory toxicological subchronic tests to prevent these on mammalian health, prior commercialization of chemicals, including pesticides and drugs, or GMOs, some statistically significant findings may be revealed. This discussion is about the need to investigate the relevant criteria to consider those as biologically significant. The sex differences and the non linear dose or time related effects should be considered in contrast to the claims of a Monsanto-supported expert panel about a GMO, the MON 863 Bt maize, but also for pesticides or drugs, in particular to reveal hormone-dependent diseases and first signs of toxicities.
Malaria remains a major global health problem, with more than half of the world population at risk of contracting the disease and nearly a million deaths each year. Here, we report the discovery of inhibitors that target multiple stages of malaria parasite growth. To identify these inhibitors, we took advantage of the Tres Cantos Antimalarial Compound Set (TCAMS) small-molecule library, which is comprised of diverse and potent chemical scaffolds with activities against the blood stage of the malaria parasite, and investigated their effects against the elusive liver stage of the malaria parasite using a forward chemical screen. From a screen of nearly 14,000 compounds, we identified and confirmed 103 compounds as dual-stage malaria inhibitors. Interestingly, these compounds show preferential inhibition of parasite growth in liver- versus blood-stage malaria parasite assays, highlighting the drug susceptibility of this parasite form. Mode-of-action studies were completed using genetically modified and drug-resistant Plasmodium parasite strains. While we identified some compound targets as classical antimalarial pathways, such as the mitochondrial electron transport chain through cytochrome bc1 complex inhibition or the folate biosynthesis pathway, most compounds induced parasite death through as yet unknown mechanisms of action. Importantly, the identification of new chemotypes with different modes of action in killing Plasmodium parasites represents a promising opportunity for probing essential and novel molecular processes that remain to be discovered. The chemical scaffolds identified with activity against drug-resistant Plasmodium parasites represent starting points for dual-stage antimalarial development to surmount the threat of malaria parasite drug resistance.
With the large scale cultivation of transgenic crops expressing Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) insecticidal crystal proteins in the world, the problem of environmental safety caused by these Bt crops has received extensive attention. These insecticidal crystal proteins can be released into the soil continuously in the growing period of Bt plants. If their accumulation of the insecticidal crystal proteins exceeds consumption by insect larvae and degradation by the environmental factors, these insecticidal crystal proteins could constitute a hazard to non-target insects and soil microbiota. There are three main ways to release insecticidal crystal proteins into soil for Bt plants: root exudates, pollen falling, and crop reside returning. The Bt insecticidal crystal proteins released into soil can be adsorbed rapidly by active soil particles and the absorption equilibrium attained within 1-3 h. The adsorption protects Bt insecticidal crystal proteins against soil microbial degradation or enzyme degradation, which leads to remarkable prolong of the persistence of insecticidal activity. The change of soil microorganism species is an important index for evaluating the effect of Bt plants on soil ecology. The research showed that these insecticidal crystal proteins released by the Bt plant root exudates or Bt organism had no toxicity to the soil earthworms, nematodes, protozoa, bacteria and fungi; however, it could reduce the mycelium length of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and restrain AMF to form invasion unit. The influencing degree of Bt protein on soil enzyme activity varied with the releasing modes or growth period of Bt crops. Bt Cry1Ab protein can be taken up from soil by parts of following crops; however, different results were obtained with different commercial kits. To better understand the soil ecological evaluation about the insecticidal crystal proteins released from transgenic Bt crops, this review provides a comprehensive overview about the release, adsorption and residue of Bt insecticidal crystal proteins in soil, as well as their effects on soil protozoa, soil microorganism, soil enzyme activity and following crops.
The Australian sheep blowfly Lucilia cuprina (Wiedemann) is a major pest of sheep in Australia and New Zealand. From the 1960s to the 1980s there was a major effort to develop "field female killing" or FFK strains of L. cuprina that could be used for a cost-effective genetic control program. The FFK strains carried eye color mutations that were lethal to females in the field but not under conditions in the mass rearing facility. Males did not die in the field as normal copies of the eye color genes had been translocated to the Y chromosome and an autosome. Although the FFK strains showed some promise in field tests, a genetic control program in mainland Australia was never implemented for several reasons including instability of the FFK strains during mass rearing. A stable transgenic strain of L. cuprina that carried one or more dominant repressible female lethal genes offered the potential for efficient genetic control of blowfly populations. Here I review our research on tetracycline-repressible female lethal genetic systems, Lucilia germ-line transformation and sex determination genes that ultimately led to the successful development of transgenic "male-only" strains of L. cuprina. The technology developed for L. cuprina should be directly transferable to other blowfly livestock pests including L. sericata and the New World and Old World screwworm. 29.
Among the most used chemicals in the world are nonionic surfactants. One of these environmental pollutants is nonylphenol ethoxylate (NP-9), also known as Tergitol, and its degradation product, nonylphenol (NP). The objective of this work was to determine the toxicity of NP and NP-9 in Caenorhabditis elegans. Wild-type L4 larvae were exposed to different concentrations of the surfactants to measure functional endpoints. Mutant strains were employed to promote the activation of toxicity signaling pathways related to mtl-2, gst-1, gpx-4, gpx-6, sod-4, hsp-70 and hsp-4. Additionally, stress response was also assessed using a daf-16::GFP transgenic strain. The lethality was concentration dependent, with 24-h LC50 of 122 μM and 3215 μM for NP and NP-9, respectively. Both compounds inhibited nematode growth, although NP was more potent; and at non-lethal concentrations, nematode locomotion was reduced. The increase in the expression of tested genes was significant at 10 μM for NP-9 and 0.001 μM for NP, implying a likely role for the activation of oxidative and cellular stress, as well as metabolism pathways. With the exception of glutathione peroxidase, which has a bimodal concentration-response curve for NP, typical of endocrine disruption, the other curves for this xenobiotic in the strains evaluated were almost flat for most concentrations, until reaching 50-100 μM, where the effect peaked. NP and NP-9 induced the activation and nuclear translocation of DAF-16, suggesting that transcription of stress-response genes may be mediated by the insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway. In contrast, NP-9 induced a concentration-dependent response for the sod-4 and hsp-4 mutants, with greater fluorescence induction than NP at similar levels. In short, NP and NP-9 affect the physiology of C. elegans and modulate gene expression related to ROS production, cellular stress and metabolism of xenobiotics.
Genetically modified or engineered organisms (GMOs, GEOs) are utilised in agriculture, expressing traits of interest, such as insect or herbicide resistance. Soybean, maize, cotton and oilseed rape are the GM crops with the largest acreage in the world. The distribution of GM acreage in the different countries is related with the different positions concerning labelling of GMO products: based on the principle of substantial equivalence, or rather based on the precautionary principle. The paper provides an overview on how the risks associated with release of GMO in the environments can be analysed and predicted, in view of a possible coexistence of GM and non-GM organisms in agriculture.Risk assessment procedures, both qualitative and quantitative, are compared in the context of application to GMOs considering also legislation requirements (Directive 2001/18/EC). Criteria and measurable properties to assess harm for human health and environmental safety are listed, and the possible consequences are evaluated in terms of significance.Finally, a mapping of the possible risks deriving from GMO release is reported, focusing on gene transfer to related species, horizontal gene transfer, direct and indirect effects on non target organisms, development of resistance in target organisms, and effects on biodiversity.
Cadmium (Cd) as a carcinogen poses a great threat to food security and public health through plant-derived foods such as rice, the staple for nearly half of the world's population. We have previously reported that overexpression of truncated gene fragments derived from the rice genes OsO3L2 and OsO3L3 could reduce Cd accumulation in transgenic rice. However, we did not test the full length genes due to prior work in Arabidopsis where overexpression of these genes caused seedling lethality. Here, we report on limiting the overexpression of OsO3L2 and OsO3L3 through the use of the stress- inducible promoter RD29B. However, despite generating 625 putative transformants, only 7 lines survived as T1 seedlings and only 1 line of each overexpressed OsO3L2 or OsO3L3-produced T2 progeny. The T2 homozygotes from these 2 lines showed the same effect of reducing accumulation of Cd in root and shoot as well as in T3 grain. As importantly, the concentrations of essential metals copper (Cu), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn) and zinc (Zn) were unaffected. Analysis of the expression profile suggested that low Cd accumulation may be due to high expression of OsO3L2 and OsO3L3 in the root tip region. Cellular localization of OsO3L2 and OsO3L3 indicate that they are histone H2A interacting nuclear proteins in vascular cells and especially in the root tip region. It is possible that interaction with histone H2A modifies chromatin to regulate downstream gene expression.
We have defined the conditions for citrus transformations using glyphosate as selection agent. This protocol results in high transformation rate and low incidence of chimeric shoots. Glyphosate, the most widely used herbicide in the world, specifically inhibits 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS), an essential enzyme of the shikimate pathway. Various laboratory-generated or naturally evolved glyphosate-resistant EPSPS variants have been used to produce glyphosate-tolerant transgenic crops, enabling highly effective weed control in agriculture. In this study, we explored the potential of using a citrus EPSPS variant that mimics the previously reported Eleusine indica glyphosate-resistant TIPS (T102I + P106S) mutant for selection of transgenic citrus plants in the presence of glyphosate. We found that glyphosate did not suppress bud formation on 'Duncan' grapefruit seedling explants, but inhibited non-transgenic bud outgrowth to produce shoots in a concentration-dependent manner. At certain concentrations, glyphosate had dramatic effect on the transformation rate and the percentage of non-chimeric transgenic shoots in this newly developed selection system. Specifically, at 0, 10, 20, and 50 μM of glyphosate, the citrus TIPS EPSPS-based selection resulted in transformation rates of 4.02, 5.04, 14.46, and 40.78%, respectively, and 6.41, 23.96, 42.94, and 40.17% of non-chimeric transgenic shoots, respectively. These results indicate that the citrus TIPS EPSPS-glyphosate selection system is highly efficient and can be used as an alternative to antibiotic-based selection methods in citrus genetic transformation. Furthermore, the selection conditions defined in this study are expected to greatly facilitate the production of genetically modified, market-friendly citrus plants, such as cisgenic and intragenic plants.
Objective:                       The objective of the study was recognition of the opinions of adolescents completing secondary schools concerning genetically modified organisms and genetically modified food, especially the respondents' emotional attitude towards scientific achievements in the area of live genetically modified organisms.                  Material and method:                       The study covered a group of 500 school adolescents completing secondary school at the level of maturity examination. The study was conducted by the method of a diagnostic survey using a self-designed questionnaire form.                  Results:                       Knowledge concerning the possible health effects of consumption of food containing GMO among adolescents competing secondary schools is on a relatively low level; the adolescents examined 'know rather little' or 'very little know' about this problem. In respondents' opinions the results of reliable studies pertaining to the health effects of consumption of GMO 'rather do not exist'. The respondents are against the cultivation of GM plants and breeding of GM animals on own farm in the future. Secondary school adolescents considered that the production of genetically modified food means primarily the enrichment of biotechnological companies, higher income for food producers, and not the elimination of hunger in the world or elimination of many diseases haunting humans.
In Europe, there seems to be widespread, morally based scepticism about the use of GMOs in food production. In response to this scepticism, the revised EU directive 2001/18/EC on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms stresses the importance of respecting ethical principles recognized in the Member States. However, the directive fails to reflect the critical role of value judgements in scientific risk assessment and any subsequent approval procedure. In this paper we argue that it is important to make all ethically relevant assumptions involved in the approval procedure transparent and thus available for public scrutiny. Mapping the value judgements that are made in an environmental risk assessment and approval procedure, we describe the political liberal nature of the EU legislation. We then look more closely at the prescriptions for environmental risk assessment and approval of GMOs outlined in the directive. An environmental risk assessment views the world through a "risk window" that only makes visible that which has been predefined as a relevant risk. The importance of the value judgements that define the risk window consists in limiting the information the risk assessment can provide. In the penultimate section of the paper, the significance of the risk window is demonstrated through a case study of the approval of glyphosate resistant fodder beets (Beta vulgaris L. ssp. vulgaris) in Denmark.
The cultivation of wheat varieties resistant to Fusarium head blight (FHB) is recognized as one of the most important components to diminish losses due to this disease. Although there is no known immunity to this disease in wheat germplasm, considerable improvements in genetic resistance have been achieved by concentrated breeding efforts that have relied primarily upon repeated field and greenhouse-based screening. DNA markers are a relatively new technology that can be used to increase breeding progress, especially for traits such as FHB that are difficult to select for under field conditions and that are controlled by multiple genes. Marker-assisted selection (MAS) uses markers to select for particular DNA segments that are genetically linked to genes that provide incremental resistance to FHB. One particular gene, designated Fhb1, provides a 20-25% average reduction in FHB symptoms. This gene and its associated markers have been validated in numerous breeding programs and is widely used to more precisely breed for resistance. About a dozen other genes affecting FHB reaction have been identified, but they have smaller and more inconsistent effects compared with Fhb1. Nevertheless, breeders are discovering which of these markers can be combined with Fhb1 in their genetic backgrounds to enhance resistance. The establishment of the USDA-ARS Regional Small Grains Genotyping Centers and similar facilities around the world have increased the capacity for wheat breeders to utilize this powerful technology. More efficient DNA extraction technologies and marker platforms will allow breeders to more fully implement MAS in the future.
Background:                       The New World screwworm, Cochliomyia hominivorax, is a devastating pest of livestock endemic to subtropical and tropical regions of the Western hemisphere. The larvae of this species feed on the tissue of living animals, including man, and can cause death if untreated. Over 60 years ago, the sterile insect technique (SIT) was developed with the aim of eradicating this pest, initially from Florida but subsequently from all of North and Central America. From the outset it was appreciated that SIT would be more efficient if only sterile males were released in the field, but this was not possible until now.                  Results:                       Here, we report on the development and evaluation of the first sexing strains of C. hominivorax that produce only males when raised on diet without tetracycline. Transgenic lines have been developed that possess a tetracycline repressible female-lethal genetic system. Ten of these lines show high female lethality at the late larval/pupal stages and three of them present dominant female lethality. Most of the lines were comparable to the wild type parental strain in several fitness parameters that are relevant to mass rearing in a production facility. Further, three lines performed well in male mating success and male competition assays, suggesting they would be sexually competitive in the field. Consequently, one transgenic line has been selected by the New World Screwworm Program for evaluation under mass rearing conditions.                  Conclusions:                       We conclude that the promising characteristics of the selected sexing strains may contribute to reduce production costs for the existing eradication program and provide more efficient population suppression, which should make a genetic control program more economical in regions were C. hominivorax remains endemic.
Genetically modified (GM) crops have brought various economic benefits but may also have adversely affected soil microorganisms. To examine whether transgenic high-methionine soybean ZD91 alters the bacterial community structure in the rhizosphere, we performed a 2-year follow-up study using the transgenic high-methionine soybean cultivar ZD91 and wild type cultivar ZD. The community composition and the relative abundance of bacteria in rhizosphere soil were determined by sequencing of the 16S rRNA amplicon. Our results indicated that transgenic soybean ZD91 had no significantly effects on rhizosphere bacterial communities. Instead, the plant growth stage and year appeared to have a stronger effect on bacterial communities. Our findings therefore provided reliable scientific evidence for potential commercial cultivation of cultivar ZD91.
Background:                       Farmers around the world have used Bt maize for more than two decades, delaying resistance using a high-dose/refuge strategy. Nevertheless, field-evolved resistance to Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) toxins has been documented. This paper describes a spatially explicit population genetics model of resistance to Bt toxins by the insect Ostrinia nubilalis and an agent-based model of farmer adoption of Bt maize incorporating social networks. The model was used to evaluate multiple resistance mitigation policies, including combinations of increased refuges for all farms, localized bans on Bt maize where resistance develops, area-wide sprays of insecticides on fields with resistance and taxes on Bt maize seed for all farms. Evaluation metrics included resistance allele frequency, pest population density, farmer adoption of Bt maize and economic surplus.                  Results:                       The most effective mitigation policies for maintaining a low resistance allele frequency were 50% refuge and localized bans. Area-wide sprays were the most effective for maintaining low pest populations. Based on economic surplus, refuge requirements were the recommended policy for mitigating resistance to high-dose Bt maize. Social networks further enhanced the benefits of refuges relative to other mitigation policies but accelerated the emergence of resistance.                  Conclusion:                       These results support using refuges as the foundation of resistance mitigation for high-dose Bt maize, just as for resistance management. Other mitigation policies examined were more effective but more costly. Social factors had substantial effects on the recommended management and mitigation of insect resistance, suggesting that agent-based models can make useful contributions for policy analysis.
Alternatives to protect crops against diseases are desperately needed to secure world food production and make agriculture more sustainable. Genetic resistance to pathogens utilized so far is mostly based on single dominant resistance genes that mediate specific recognition of invaders and that is often rapidly broken by pathogen variants. Perturbation of plant susceptibility (S) genes offers an alternative providing plants with recessive resistance that is proposed to be more durable. S genes enable the establishment of plant disease, and their inactivation provides opportunities for resistance breeding of crops. However, loss of S gene function can have pleiotropic effects. Developments in genome editing technology promise to provide powerful methods to precisely interfere with crop S gene functions and reduce tradeoffs.
Genetically modified organisms (GMOs), which produce Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) toxins, are widely used in agriculture in some parts of the world. Despite this, ecotoxicological methods, tailored to GMOs, are lacking to assess effects on aquatic environments. With the objective to investigate a food-related exposure pathway for aquatic shredders, we used a new food-spiking method while caddisfly larvae (Chaetopteryx spec., Sericostoma spec.) served as test species. Pure Cry1Ab toxins were spiked on black alder leaf discs and subsequently used in a feeding experiment. The toxin did not influence larval mortality compared to the control. The results, however, showed significant effects on larval lipid content (Chaetopteryx spec.) and development (Sericostoma spec.) at concentrations of 17.2 and 132.4 ng Cry1Ab/mg leaf, respectively. These changes are indicative for impacts on the fitness of the specimen and thus relevant in a risk assessment context. Ultimately, the food-spiking method allowed applying different Bt toxin concentrations leading to the establishment of dose-response relationships for various response variables. The use of long test durations and sublethal endpoints (consumption, lipid content, growth, larval instars) is, moreover, advisable when testing GMO effects.
Background:                       Increasing the nutrient concentration of wheat grains is important to ameliorate nutritional deficiencies in many parts of the world. Proteins and nutrients in the wheat grain are largely derived from the remobilization of degraded leaf molecules during monocarpic senescence. The down-regulation of the NAC transcription factor Grain Protein Content (GPC) in transgenic wheat plants delays senescence (>3 weeks) and reduces the concentration of protein, Zn and Fe in the grain (>30%), linking senescence and nutrient remobilization.Based on the early and rapid up-regulation of GPC in wheat flag leaves after anthesis, we hypothesized that this transcription factor is an early regulator of monocarpic senescence. To test this hypothesis, we used high-throughput mRNA-seq technologies to characterize the effect of the GPC down-regulation on the wheat flag-leaf transcriptome 12 days after anthesis. At this early stage of senescence GPC transcript levels are significantly lower in transgenic GPC-RNAi plants than in the wild type, but there are still no visible phenotypic differences between genotypes.                  Results:                       We generated 1.4 million 454 reads from early senescing flag leaves (average ~350 nt) and assembled 1.2 million into 30,497 contigs that were used as a reference to map 145 million Illumina reads from three wild type and four GPC-RNAi plants. Following normalization and statistical testing, we identified a set of 691 genes differentially regulated by GPC (431 ≥ 2-fold change). Transcript level ratios between transgenic and wild type plants showed a high correlation (R = 0.83) between qRT-PCR and Illumina results, providing independent validation of the mRNA-seq approach. A set of differentially expressed genes were analyzed across an early senescence time-course.                  Conclusions:                       Monocarpic senescence is an active process characterized by large-scale changes in gene expression which begins considerably before the appearance of visual symptoms of senescence. The mRNA-seq approach used here was able to detect small differences in transcript levels during the early stages of senescence. This resulted in an extensive list of GPC-regulated genes, which includes transporters, hormone regulated genes, and transcription factors. These GPC-regulated genes, particularly those up-regulated during senescence, provide valuable entry points to dissect the early stages of monocarpic senescence and nutrient remobilization in wheat.
Transgenic plants have significant potential in the bioproduction of complex human therapeutic proteins due to ease of genetic manipulation, lack of potential contamination with human pathogens, conservation of eukaryotic cell machinery mediating protein modification, and low cost of biomass production. Tobacco has been used as our initial transgenic system because Agrobacterium-mediated transformation is highly efficient, prolific seed production greatly facilitates biomass scale-up, and development of new "health-positive" uses for tobacco has significant regional support. We have targeted bioproduction of complex recombinant human proteins with commercial potential as human pharmaceuticals. Human protein C (hPC), a highly processed serum protease of the coagulation/anticoagulation cascade, was produced at low levels in transgenic tobacco leaves. Analogous to its processing in mammalian systems, tobacco-synthesized hPC appears to undergo multiple proteolytic cleavages, disulfide bond formation, and N-linked glycosylation. Although tobacco-derived hPC has not yet been tested for all posttranslational modifications or for enzymatic (anticlotting) activity, these results are promising and suggest considerable conservation of protein processing machinery between plants and animals. CropTech researchers have also produced the human lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase (hGC) in transgenic tobacco. This glycoprotein has significant commercial potential as replacement therapy in patients with Gaucher's disease. Regular intravenous administration of modified glucocerebrosidase, derived from human placentae or CHO cells, has proven highly effective in reducing disease manifestations in patients with Gaucher's disease. However, the enzyme is expensive (dubbed the "world's most expensive drug" by the media), making it a dramatic model for evaluating the potential of plants to provide a safe, low-cost source of bioactive human enzymes. Transgenic tobacco plants were generated that contained the human glucocerebrosidase cDNA under the control of an inducible plant promoter. hGC expression was demonstrated in plant extracts by enzyme activity assay and immunologic cross-reactivity with anti-hGC antibodies. Tobacco-synthesized hGC comigrates with human placental-derived hGC during electrophoretic separations, is glycosylated, and, most significantly, is enzymatically active. Although expression levels vary depending on transformant and induction protocol, hGC production of > 1 mg/g fresh weight of leaf tissue has been attained in crude extracts. Our studies provide strong support for the utilization of tobacco for high-level production of active hGC for purification and eventual therapeutic use at potentially much reduced costs. Furthermore, this technology should be directly adaptable to the production of a variety of other complex human proteins of biologic and pharmaceutical interest.
Introduction of DDT (dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane) and following move towards indiscriminate use of synthetic chemical insecticides led to the contamination of water and food sources, poisoning of non-target beneficial insects and development of insect-pests resistant to the chemical insecticides. Increased public concems about the adverse environmental effects of indiscriminate use of chemical insecticides prompted search of altemative methods for insect-pest control. One of the promising alternatives has been the use of biological control agents. There is well-documented history of safe application of Bt (B. thuringiensis, a gram positive soil bacterium) as effective biopesticides and a number of reports of expression of delta-endotoxin gene(s) in crop plants are available. Only a few insecticidal sprays are required on Bt transgenic crops, which not only save cost and time, but also reduce health risks. Insects exhibit remarkable ability to develop resistance to different insecticidal compounds, which raises concern about the unsystematic use of Bt transgenic technology also. Though resistance to Bt products among insect species under field conditions has been rare, laboratory studies show that insects are capable of developing high levels of resistance to one ormore Cry proteins. Now it is generally agreed that 'high-dose/refuge strategy' is the most promising and practical approach to prolong the effectiveness of Bt toxins. Although manybiosafety concerns, ethical and moral issues exist, area under Bt transgenic crops is rapidly increasing and they are cultivated on more than 32 million hectares world over Even after reservation of European Union (EU) for acceptance of geneticaly modified (GM) crops, 6 out of 25 countries have already adopted Bt crops and many otherindustrial countries will adopt Bt transgenic crops in near future. While the modem biotechnology has been recognized to have a great potential for the promotion of human well-being, adoption of biosafety protocol is necessary to protect human health and environment from the possible adverse effects of the products of genetic engineering. The debate between proponents and opponents of GM technology has created major obstacles in hamessing benefits of the technology It has now become clear that transgenics willbe accepted by the public only when doubts related with general risks and environmental safety are adequately dispelled. Thus, there is need to organize public awareness and present the benefits of Bt transgenic crops to improve social attitude for their rational deployment. In this review, an attempt has been made to discuss social and environmental safety issues of Bt transgenic crops.
Today, over 7.1 billion people rely on the earth's resources for sustenance, and nearly a billion people are malnourished, their minds and bodies unable to develop properly. Globally, population is expected to rise to more than 9 billion by 2050. Given the combined pressures of human population growth, the rapidly growing desire for increased levels of consumption, and the continued use of inappropriate technologies, it is not surprising that humans are driving organisms to extinction at an unprecedented rate. Many aspects of the sustainable functioning of the natural world are breaking down in the face of human-induced pressures including our individual and collective levels of consumption and our widespread and stubborn use of destructive technologies. Clearly, agriculture must undergo a redesign and be better and more effectively managed so as to contribute as well as possible to feeding people, while at the same time we strive to lessen the tragic loss of biodiversity and damage to all of its productive systems that the world is experiencing. For GM crops to be part of the solution, biosafety assessments should not be overly politically-driven or a burdensome impedance to delivering this technology broadly. Biosafety scientists and policy makers need to recognize the undeniable truth that inappropriate actions resulting in indecision also have negative consequences. It is no longer acceptable to delay the use of any strategy that is safe and will help us achieve the ability to feed the world's people.
Aortic aneurysms are an important cause of mortality in the western world. Monogenic disorders such as the Marfan syndrome (MFS) are good genetic models for the pathogenesis of aortic aneurysm. In the MFS, progressive dilatation of the aortic root leads to aortic aneurysm and dissection, often associated with precocious death. Early pathogenetic models for MFS focused upon structural weakness of the tissues imposed by microfibrillar deficiency. However, recent studies of transgenic mouse models have challenged this model and demonstrated a central role for the upregulation of the TGFbeta signaling pathway. The discovery of a new aortic aneurysm syndrome, the Loeys-Dietz syndrome (LDS), confirmed the importance of the cytokine TGFbeta in aneurysm pathogenesis. The main distinguishing features between LDS and MFS include the presence of hypertelorism, cleft palate/bifid uvula and arterial tortuosity. LDS is caused by mutations in the genes encoding the receptors for TGFbeta (TGFBR1/2). This insight helped to elucidate the pathogenesis of another rare autosomal recessive connective tissue disorder, arterial tortuosity syndrome. This disease is caused by mutations in the SLC2A10 gene, coding for GLUT10, a member of the glucose transporter family. In analogy to LDS, we demonstrated an upregulation of TGFbeta in ATS. Finally, all these insights have also lead to new therapeutic insights. In transgenic mouse models it was shown that losartan, an angiotensin II type 1 receptor with known inhibiting effects on TGFbeta, rescues the aortic phenotype. If these promising results are confirmed in human trials, losartan might have beneficial effects in the treatment of more common nonhereditary aortic aneurysms.
Liver-affecting, carcinogenic aflatoxins produced by Aspergillus spp. are a major problem, especially in the humid developing world where storage conditions are often optimal for the fungi. Peanuts and maize have been transformed with RNAi constructs targeting Aspergillus flavus polyketide-synthase, an early key enzyme in aflatoxin biosynthesis. Aflatoxin biosynthesis was suppressed in developing immature grain, less so in late maturing grain, and it is doubtful that the technology will be effective in near dry mature grain. The infected grain was still mouldy. As Aspergillus that infects grain preharvest can continue to grow and produce aflatoxin in poorly stored grain, and grain storage insects vector further infections, this technology seems to have little potential utility in the humid tropics. The biotechnological approaches of RNAi directly targeting Aspergillus, coupled with transgenic insecticidal proteins should be far more effective. These biotechnological approaches can be used in tandem with the RNAi against polyketide-synthase, as well as with irradiation, biocontrol and better grain drying and hermetic dry storage in a controlled atmosphere. © 2017 Society of Chemical Industry.
Herbicide contamination from agriculture is a major issue worldwide, and has been identified as a threat to freshwater and marine environments in the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area in Australia. The triazine herbicides are of particular concern because of potential adverse effects, both on photosynthetic organisms and upon vertebrate development. To date a number of bioremediation strategies have been proposed for triazine herbicides, but are unlikely to be implemented due to their reliance upon the release of genetically modified organisms. We propose an alternative strategy using a free-enzyme bioremediant, which is unconstrained by the issues surrounding the use of live organisms. Here we report an initial field trial with an enzyme-based product, demonstrating that the technology is technically capable of remediating water bodies contaminated with the most common triazine herbicide, atrazine.
Genetically modified microorganisms (GMMs) can enable a wide range of important applications including environmental sensing and responsive engineered living materials. However, containment of GMMs to prevent environmental escape and satisfy regulatory requirements is a bottleneck for real-world use. While current biochemical strategies restrict unwanted growth of GMMs in the environment, there is a need for deployable physical containment technologies to achieve redundant, multi-layered and robust containment. We developed a hydrogel-based encapsulation system that incorporates a biocompatible multilayer tough shell and an alginate-based core. This deployable physical containment strategy (DEPCOS) allows no detectable GMM escape, bacteria to be protected against environmental insults including antibiotics and low pH, controllable lifespan and easy retrieval of genomically recoded bacteria. To highlight the versatility of DEPCOS, we demonstrated that robustly encapsulated cells can execute useful functions, including performing cell-cell communication with other encapsulated bacteria and sensing heavy metals in water samples from the Charles River.
Parasitoid wasps inflict widespread death upon the insect world. Hundreds of thousands of parasitoid wasp species kill a vast range of insect species. Insects have evolved defensive responses to the threat of wasps, some cellular and some behavioral. Here we find an unexpected response of adult Drosophila to the presence of certain parasitoid wasps: accelerated mating behavior. Flies exposed to certain wasp species begin mating more quickly. The effect is mediated via changes in the behavior of the female fly and depends on visual perception. The sight of wasps induces the dramatic upregulation in the fly nervous system of a gene that encodes a 41-amino acid micropeptide. Mutational analysis reveals that the gene is essential to the behavioral response of the fly. Our work provides a foundation for further exploration of how the activation of visual circuits by the sight of a wasp alters both sexual behavior and gene expression.
Neglected tropical diseases caused by parasitic nematodes inflict an immense health and socioeconomic burden throughout much of the developing world. Current estimates indicate that more than two billion people are infected with nematodes, resulting in the loss of 14 million disability-adjusted life years per annum. Although these parasites cause significant mortality, they primarily cause chronic morbidity through a wide range of severe clinical ailments. Treatment options for nematode infections are restricted to a small number of anthelmintic drugs, and the rapid expansion of anthelmintic mass drug administration raises concerns of drug resistance. Preservation of existing drugs is necessary, as well as the development of new treatment options and methods of control. We focus this review on how the democratization of CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing technology can be enlisted to improve our understanding of the biology of nematode parasites and our ability to treat the infections they cause. We will first explore how this robust method of genome manipulation can be used to newly exploit the powerful model nematode Caenorhabditis elegans for parasitology research. We will then discuss potential avenues to develop CRISPR/Cas9 editing protocols in filarial nematodes. Lastly, we will propose potential ways in which CRISPR/Cas9 can be used to engineer gene drives that target the transmission of mosquito-borne filarial nematodes.
Transgenic Bt crops are widely planted around the world. With the quick development and extension of genetically modified crops, it is needed to make a deep study on the effects of Bt crops on soil ecosystem. This paper reviewed the research progress on the effects of transgenic Bt crops on the population dynamics and community structure of soil animals, e.g., earthworm, nematode, springtail, mite, and beetle, etc. The development history of Bt crops was introduced, the passway the Bt protein comes into soil as well as the residual and degradation of Bt protein in soil were analyzed, and the critical research fields about the ecological risk analysis of transgenic Bt crops on non-target soil animals in the future were approached, which would provide a reference for the research of the effects of transgenic Bt crops on non-target soil animals.
Plastid-encoded genes are maternally inherited in most plant species. Transgenes located on the plastid genome are thus within a natural confinement system, preventing their distribution via pollen. However, a low-frequency leakage of plastids via pollen seems to be universal in plants. Here we report that a very low-level paternal inheritance in Arabidopsis thaliana occurs under field conditions. As pollen donor an Arabidopsis accession (Ler-Ely) was used, which carried a plastid-localized atrazine resistance due to a point mutation in the psbA gene. The frequency of pollen transmission into F1 plants, based on their ability to express the atrazine resistance was 1.9 × 10(-5). We extended our analysis to another cruciferous species, the world-wide cultivated crop Brassica napus. First, we isolated a fertile and stable plastid transformant (T36) in a commercial cultivar of B. napus (cv Drakkar). In T36 the aadA and the bar genes were integrated in the inverted repeat region of the B. napus plastid DNA following particle bombardment of hypocotyl segments. Southern blot analysis confirmed transgene integration and homoplasmy of plastid DNA. Line T36 expressed Basta resistance from the inserted bar gene and this trait was used to estimate the frequency of pollen transmission into F1 plants. A frequency of <2.6 × 10(-5) was determined in the greenhouse. Taken together, our data show a very low rate of paternal plastid transmission in Brassicacea. Moreover, the establishment of plastid transformation in B. napus facilitates a safe use of this important crop plant for plant biotechnology.
Chromium is one of the top 20 highly toxic heavy metals, which affect agricultural land and economically important crops all over the world. The plant responds to cope with the adverse effects caused by exogenous stimuli. The most important plant's growth, as well as stress response components, are the diverse group of phytohormones. Plant root being the first organ that counters soil contaminant, can be severely damaged. Auxin and ethylene are the most important phytohormones of the root growth and development. It is also reported that auxin is and ethylene play acts synergistically against various abiotic stresses. In a recently published article in Plant, Cell, and Environment we reported that high Cr(VI) levels-induced ethylene mediates auxin distribution. We further reported that Cr(VI)-induced ethylene-mediated auxin is involved in the primary root growth inhibition. In the current, study we proposed a functional model for the Cr(V)-induced ethylene-mediated root growth inhibition by modulating cell cycle and auxin distribution.
The 2018 student debates of the Entomological Society of America were held at the Joint Annual Meeting for the Entomological Societies of America, Canada, and British Columbia in Vancouver, BC. Three unbiased introductory speakers and six debate teams discussed and debated topics under the theme 'Entomology in the 21st Century: Tackling Insect Invasions, Promoting Advancements in Technology, and Using Effective Science Communication'. This year's debate topics included: 1) What is the most harmful invasive insect species in the world? 2) How can scientists diffuse the stigma or scare factor surrounding issues that become controversial such as genetically modified organisms, agricultural biotechnological developments, or pesticide chemicals? 3) What new/emerging technologies have the potential to revolutionize entomology (other than Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats)? Introductory speakers and debate teams spent approximately 9 mo preparing their statements and arguments and had the opportunity to share this at the Joint Annual Meeting with an engaged audience.
Environmental stresses and the continuing deterioration of arable land, along with an explosive increase in world population, pose serious threats to global agricultural production and food security. Improving the tolerance of the major crop plants to abiotic stresses has been a main goal in agriculture for a long time. As rice is considered one of the major crops, the development of new cultivars with enhanced abiotic stress-tolerance will undoubtedly have an important effect on global food production. The transgenic approach offers an attractive alternative to conventional techniques for the genetic improvement of rice cultivars. In recent years, an array of stress-related genes has already been transferred to rice to improve its resistance against abiotic stresses. Many transgenic rice plants with enhanced abiotic stress-tolerance have been obtained. This article focuses on the progress in the study of abiotic stress tolerance in transgenic rice breeding.
Plant leaves (phyllosphere) have a great potential for colonization and microbial growth, consisting of a dynamic environment in which several factors can interfere with the microbial population structure. The use of genetically modified (GM) plants has introduced several traits in agriculture, such as the improvement of plant drought tolerance, as observed in the AtAREB1 transcription factor overexpression in soybean (Glycine max L. Merrill). The present study aimed at investigating the taxonomic and functional profile of the leaf microbial community of bacteria found in GM (drought-tolerant event 1Ea2939) and conventional (BR 16) soybean plants. Bacterial DNA was extracted from leaf samples collected from each genotype and used for microbial diversity and richness analysis through the MiSeq Illumina platform. Functional prediction was performed using the PICRUSt tool and the STAMP v 2.1.3 software. The obtainment of the GM event 1Ea2939 showed minimum effects on the microbial community and in the potential for chemical-genetic communication, i.e. in the potential for symbiotic and/or mutualistic interaction between plants and their natural microbiota.
Leishmaniasis causes significant morbidity and mortality worldwide and is an important public health problem. Even though it is endemic in developing countries in tropical regions of the world,in recent years economic globalization and increased travel has extended its reach to people in developed countries. Leishmania is usually spread by the bite of the female sandfly. In addition, naïve populations can be exposed to Leishmania infection through transfusion of blood and blood products from infected asymptomatic individuals. There are several clinical forms of leishmaniasis caused by different species of the parasite. In some cases, the only possible cure for this disease is drug treatment. However, prolonged use of such drugs has led to parasite drug resistance. At present there are no effective vaccines against Leishmania. Many vaccine strategies have been pursued, including the use of whole cell lysate, killed, avirulent or irradiated parasites. Additionally, DNA vaccines and purified or recombinant parasite antigens have also been tested. Most of these strategies have shown some degree of effectiveness in animal models but little or no protection in humans. There is now a general consensus among Leishmania vaccine researchers that parasite persistence may be important for effective protective response and could be achieved by live attenuated parasite immunization. In this article we reviewed the efforts in developing genetically defined live attenuated Leishmania parasites as vaccine candidates with the goal of achieving a low level of parasite persistence without being virulent in the host and inducing protective immunity.
The genetic transformation of opium poppy, Papaver somniferum, offers the opportunity to study the mechanisms involved in the regulation of benzylisoquinoline and morphinan alkaloid biosynthesis. The development of an efficient transformation protocol for opium poppy has allowed us to transform a range of genotypes from all around the world, including previously recalcitrant high-yielding commercial Australian cultivars. The method involves Agrobacterium tumefaciens infection of hypocotyl explants, followed by the production of antibiotic or herbicide resistant embryogenic callus, the subsequent induction of somatic embryos and development into normal plants. The use of different selective agents, binary vectors, and poppy genotypes has demonstrated the robustness and reliability of this protocol in the production of many hundreds of confirmed transgenic poppies.
Especially in low-income nations, new and orphan crops provide important opportunities to improve diet quality and the sustainability of food production, being rich in nutrients, capable of fitting into multiple niches in production systems, and relatively adapted to low-input conditions. The evolving space for these crops in production systems presents particular genetic improvement requirements that extensive gene pools are able to accommodate. Particular needs for genetic development identified in part with plant breeders relate to three areas of fundamental importance for addressing food production and human demographic trends and associated challenges, namely: facilitating integration into production systems; improving the processability of crop products; and reducing farm labour requirements. Here, we relate diverse involved target genes and crop development techniques. These techniques include transgressive methods that involve defining exemplar crop models for effective new and orphan crop improvement pathways. Research on new and orphan crops not only supports the genetic improvement of these crops, but they serve as important models for understanding crop evolutionary processes more broadly, guiding further major crop evolution. The bridging position of orphan crops between new and major crops provides unique opportunities for investigating genetic approaches for de novo domestications and major crop 'rewildings'.
The world has experienced phenomenal growth in science and knowledge since the second-world war. Infectious disease conditions that were almost always fatal in the early 1900s are now being effectively treated with antibiotics and other modalities emanating from science and prevented through the general improvements in vaccination, nutrition, sanitation and availability of safe water to many more people. Biotechnology as one aspect of this growth in knowledge and practice has particular potential to enable the development and increased accessibility of rapid and efficient diagnostic, preventive and health promotion tools, restoration of water quality, soil and other natural resources. This has the potential to make our environment much safer and also agriculturally more productive. Development of new biotechnology, especially in medicine, is essentially the domain of developed nations, and in Africa, a few countries like South Africa, Kenya and Egypt are leading the way. In this paper, we discuss the risks and benefits of biotechnology especially regarding human health in developing countries. We have drawn significantly from the ethical tenets of beneficence, autonomy of individuals, fairness or justice and informed consent.
In order to meet the protein nutrition needs of the world population, greater reliance on plant protein sources will become necessary. The amino acid balance of most plant protein sources does not match the nutritional requirements of monogastric animals, limiting their nutritional value. In cereals, the essential amino acid lysine is deficient. Maize is a major component of human and animal diets worldwide and especially where sources of plant protein are in critical need such as sub-Saharan Africa. To improve the amino acid balance of maize, we developed transgenic maize lines that produce the milk protein alpha-lactalbumin in the endosperm. Lines in which the transgene was inherited as a single dominant genetic locus were identified. Sibling kernels with or without the transgene were compared to determine the effect of the transgene on kernel traits in lines selected for their high content of alpha-lactalbumin. Total protein content in endosperm from transgene positive kernels was not significantly different from total protein content in endosperm from transgene negative kernels in three out of four comparisons, whereas the lysine content of the lines examined was 29-47% greater in endosperm from transgene positive kernels. The content of some other amino acids was changed to a lesser extent. Taken together, these changes resulted in the transgenic endosperms having an improved amino acid balance relative to non-transgenic endosperms produced on the same ear. Kernel appearance, weight, density and zein content did not exhibit substantial differences in kernels expressing the transgene when compared to non-expressing siblings. Assessment of the antigenicity and impacts on animal health will be required in order to determine the overall value of this technology.
Vitamin E comprises a group of eight lipid soluble antioxidant compounds that are an essential part of the human diet. The α-isomers of both tocopherol and tocotrienol are generally considered to have the highest antioxidant activities. γ-tocopherol methyltransferase (γ-TMT) catalyzes the final step in vitamin E biosynthesis, the methylation of γ- and δ-isomers to α- and β-isomers. In present study, the Arabidopsis γ-TMT (AtTMT) cDNA was overexpressed constitutively or in the endosperm of the elite japonica rice cultivar Wuyujing 3 (WY3) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. HPLC analysis showed that, in brown rice of the wild type or transgenic controls with empty vector, the α-/γ-tocotrienol ratio was only 0.7, much lower than that for tocopherol (~19.0). In transgenic rice overexpressing AtTMT driven by the constitutive Ubi promoter, most of the γ-isomers were converted to α-isomers, especially the γ- and δ-tocotrienol levels were dramatically decreased. As a result, the α-tocotrienol content was greatly increased in the transgenic seeds. Similarly, over-expression of AtTMT in the endosperm also resulted in an increase in the α-tocotrienol content. The results showed that the α-/γ-tocopherol ratio also increased in the transgenic seeds, but there was no significant effect on α-tocopherol level, which may reflect the fact that γ-tocopherol is present in very small amounts in wild type rice seeds. AtTMT overexpression had no effect on the absolute total content of either tocopherols or tocotrienols. Taken together, these results are the first demonstration that the overexpression of a foreign γ-TMT significantly shift the tocotrienol synthesis in rice, which is one of the world's most important food crops.
Background:                       Photoreceptor degeneration is one of the most refractory oculopathy in the world, leading to vision loss in severe cases. Methyprednisolone is one of the most commonly prescribed medications for the treatment of retinal degenerative diseases, either by oral administration or repeated intraocular injections. However, the efficacy was unsatisfactory due to its systemic or local side effects and short retention time within the retina.                  Methods:                       Nanoscale zirconium-porphyrin metal-organic framework (NPMOF) was synthesized and characterized. The biotoxicity and imaging capability of NPMOF were evaluated using zebrafish embryos and larvae. NPMOF was then used as a skeleton and loaded with methylprednisolone (MPS) to prepare a novel kind of nanoparticle, MPS-NPMOF. Photoreceptor degeneration was induced by high-intensity light exposure in adult zebrafish. MPS-NPMOF was delivered to the injured retina by intraocular injection. The photoreceptor regeneration and its underlying mechanism were explored by immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and behavioral test.                  Results:                       NPMOF not only had low biotoxicity but also emitted bright fluorescence. Following a single MPS-NPMOF intraocular injection, the injured retina exhibited the faster photoreceptor regeneration with better visual function by promoting the cell proliferation.                  Conclusion:                       NPMOF is an ideal carrier and could be applied in tracking and delivering medications. By intraocular injection, the novel drug delivery system, MPS-NPMOF, accomplishes the sustained release of drug and plays a therapeutic role in photoreceptor degeneration.
Background/aims:                       Cancer is the second most deadly disease in the world. The bladder cancer is one of the most aggressive types and shows a continuous increase in the number of cases. The use of bacteria as live vectors to deliver molecules directly to the tumor is a promising tool and has been used as an adjuvant treatment against several types of cancer. The aim of this study was to investigate the antitumor effect of Interleukin 2 (IL-2), TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) and protein MIX against murine bladder cancer cells, lineage MB49.                  Methods:                       The attenuated Salmonella strain SL3261 was transformed by inserting the IL-2 and TRAIL genes. The effects of proteins on cell viability (MTT method), cell morphology (optical microscopy), cell recovery (clonogenic assay), cell membrane (lactate dehydrogenase release - LDH), on oxidative stress pathway (levels of nitric oxide, NO) and apoptosis (flow cytometry and high resolution epifluorescence images) were evaluated at intervals of 24 and 48 hours of action.                  Results:                       The results showed that there was a decrease in cell viability via damage to the cell membrane, alteration of cell morphology, non-recovery of cells, increase in the production of NO and incubate for of cells in the state of apoptosis in the two periods analyzed.                  Conclusion:                       The data presented suggest that IL-2, TRAIL and their MIX proteins in MB49 cells have cytotoxic potential and that this is associated with oxidative stress and apoptosis pathways. These results may contribute to the development of new therapeutic strategies for bladder cancer.
The term genomics has evolved into a catch-all term for a variety of information intensive biological methodologies. While the promise of genomics in the bio/pharmaceutical industry is great, its impact on the drug discovery pipeline has not yet been realized, excluding a few notable exceptions. As companies acquire several years of experience in working with genomic data, it is likely that the impact on the discovery process will slowly emerge as we learn to integrate these new technologies into individual discovery programs. It is clear that extracting novel biologically valid targets targets from exponentially growing amounts of sequence data requires time and considerable investment in biological research infrastructure. In order to accelerate the process of target validation, a variety of functional genomics technologies are also being developed to try to predict the effect of inhibitory compounds in advance of development. Resources spent on early stage exploratory efforts such as these can pay off by improving the success rate for screening and medicinal chemistry.
Background:                       In China, controversy about genetically modified organisms (GMO) is ongoing and some regard GMO as a "product of a conspiracy," which affects people's attitudes (PAs) toward GMO. Beliefs in conspiracy theories (BCT) are formed from the information that people are exposed to. Information exposure not only constructs a pseudo-environment for individuals to perceive the world, but also generates external stimuli for their mental states and attitudes. People's objective knowledge and self-assessed knowledge play an important moderating role in this process.                  Method:                       The study adopted the stimulus-organism-response (SOR) model, with conspiracy beliefs as mediating variables, to test the mechanism of the independent variable of information exposure on the dependent variable of PAs toward GMO. Objective knowledge and self-assessed knowledge were introduced as moderator variables to explore the different roles of knowledge. A survey of Chinese adults was conducted in February 2022, and partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) was employed to estimate the multi-construct relationships.                  Results:                       Information exposure was significantly and directly connected with PAs toward GMO. BCT also played a significant mediating role. Unofficial information exposure reinforced beliefs in conspiracy theories. Stronger beliefs in conspiracy theories reduced people's willingness to consume GMO foods and made them pessimistic about the development prospects of GMO foods. In contrast, exposure to official information weakened people's beliefs in conspiracy theories and increased their willingness to consume GMO foods. In addition, the level of knowledge had a moderating role. Individual's objective knowledge can effectively reduce the negative relationship of conspiracy beliefs on attitudes toward GMO development. Conversely, individual's self-assessed knowledge can enhance the negative relationship of conspiracy beliefs on attitudes toward GMO development.                  Conclusion:                       Based on psychological and cognitive dimensions, this study provides a new perspective on how information exposure and people's attitudes toward GMO are related to each other and enriches the variable measurement dimension of knowledge. Simultaneously, it provides a localized explanation of the factors affecting people's attitudes toward GMO in China, providing a new theoretical basis for the subsequent development strategy of GMO foods.
While conspiracy ideation has attracted overdue attention from social scientists in recent years, little work focuses on how different pro-conspiracy messages affect the take-up of conspiracy beliefs. In this study, we compare the effect of explicit and implicit conspiracy cues on the adoption of conspiracy beliefs. We also examine whether corrective information can undo conspiracy cues, and whether there are differences in the effectiveness of corrective information based on whether a respondent received an explicit or implicit conspiracy cue. We examine these questions using a real-world but low-salience conspiracy theory concerning Zika, GM mosquitoes, and vaccines. Using a preregistered experiment (N = 1018: https://osf.io/hj2pw/), we find that both explicit and implicit conspiracy cues increase conspiracy beliefs, but in both cases corrections are generally effective. We also find reception of an explicit conspiracy cue and its correction is conditional on feelings toward the media and pharmaceutical companies. Finally, we find that examining open-ended conspiracy belief items reveals similar patterns, but with a few key differences. These findings have implications for how news media cover controversial public health issues going forward.
The bucket and the searchlight are metaphors for opposing theories of the growth of scientific knowledge. The bucket theory proposes that knowledge is gained by observing the world without preconceptions, and that knowledge emerges from the accumulation of observations that support a hypothesis. There are many problems with this theory, the most serious of which is that it does not appear to offer a means to distinguish between the many hypotheses that could explain a particular set of observations. The searchlight theory proposes that preconceptions are unavoidable and that knowledge advances through the improvement of our preconceptions - our hypotheses - by continuous criticism and revision. A hypothesis is a searchlight that illuminates observations that test the hypothesis and reveal its flaws, and knowledge thereby increases through the elimination of false hypotheses. Research into the risks posed by the cultivation of transgenic crops often appears to apply the bucket theory; many data are produced, but knowledge of risk is not advanced. Application of the searchlight theory, whereby risk assessments test hypotheses that transgenic crops will not be harmful, seems to offer a better way to characterise risk. The effectiveness of an environmental risk assessment should not be measured by the size of the bucket of observations on a transgenic crop, but by the power of the risk hypothesis searchlights to clarify the risks that may arise from cultivation of that crop. These points are illustrated by examples of hypotheses that could be tested to assess the risks from transgenic crops and their hybrids becoming weeds or invading non-agricultural habitats.
Pests and diseases are a continuous challenge in agriculture production. A wide range of control strategies have been and will continue to be developed. New control strategies are in almost all countries around the world assessed prior to approval for use in farmers' fields. This is rightly so to avoid and even reduce negative effects for human health and the environment. Over the past decades the approval processes have become increasingly politicized resulting in an increase in the direct approval costs and the length in approval time without increasing the safety of the final product. This reduces the development of control strategies and often has negative human health and environmental effects. Possibilities exist for improvements. They include reducing approval costs and approval time by streamlining the approval process and substituting approval requirements by strengthening ex-post liability. © 2018 Society of Chemical Industry.
Glyphosate, the most commonly used herbicide in the world, controls a wide range of plant species, mainly because plants have little capacity to metabolize (detoxify) glyphosate. Massive glyphosate use has led to world-wide evolution of glyphosate-resistant (GR) weed species, including the economically damaging grass weed Echinochloa colona An Australian population of E colona has evolved resistance to glyphosate with unknown mechanisms that do not involve the glyphosate target enzyme 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-P synthase. GR and glyphosate-susceptible (S) lines were isolated from this population and used for resistance gene discovery. RNA sequencing analysis and phenotype/genotype validation experiments revealed that one aldo-keto reductase (AKR) contig had higher expression and higher resultant AKR activity in GR than S plants. Two full-length AKR (EcAKR4-1 and EcAKR4-2) complementary DNA transcripts were cloned with identical sequences between the GR and S plants but were upregulated in the GR plants. Rice (Oryza sativa) calli and seedlings overexpressing EcAKR4-1 and displaying increased AKR activity were resistant to glyphosate. EcAKR4-1 expressed in Escherichia coli can metabolize glyphosate to produce aminomethylphosphonic acid and glyoxylate. Consistent with these results, GR E colona plants exhibited enhanced capacity for detoxifying glyphosate into aminomethylphosphonic acid and glyoxylate. Structural modeling predicted that glyphosate binds to EcAKR4-1 for oxidation, and metabolomics analysis of EcAKR4-1 transgenic rice seedlings revealed possible redox pathways involved in glyphosate metabolism. Our study provides direct experimental evidence of the evolution of a plant AKR that metabolizes glyphosate and thereby confers glyphosate resistance.
Tomato has a relatively short growth cycle (fruit ready to pick within 65-85 days from planting) and a relatively high yield (the average for globe tomatoes is 3-9 kg fruit per plant rising to as much as 40 kg fruit per plant). Tomatoes also produce large amounts of important primary and secondary metabolites which can serve as intermediates or substrates for producing valuable new compounds. As a model crop, tomato already has a broad range of tools and resources available for biotechnological applications, either increased nutrients for health-promoting biofortified foods or as a production system for high-value compounds. These advantages make tomato an excellent chassis for the production of important metabolites. We summarize recent achievements in metabolic engineering of tomato and suggest new candidate metabolites which could be targets for metabolic engineering. We offer a scheme for how to establish tomato as a chassis for industrial-scale production of high-value metabolites.
During the last two decades, the public and private sectors have made substantial research progress internationally toward improving the nutritional value of a wide range of food and feed crops. Nevertheless, significant numbers of people still suffer from the effects of undernutrition. As newly developed crops with nutritionally improved traits come closer to being available to producers and consumers, scientifically sound and efficient processes are needed to assess the safety and nutritional quality of these crops. In 2004, a Task Force of international scientific experts, convened by the International Food Biotechnology Committee (IFBiC) of ILSI, published recommendations for the safety and nutritional assessment of foods and feeds nutritionally improved through modern biotechnology (J. Food Science, 2004, 69:CRH62-CRH68). The comparative safety assessment process is a basic principle in this publication and is the starting point, not the conclusion, of the analysis. Significant differences in composition are expected to be observed in the case of nutritionally enhanced crops and must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. The Golden Rice 2 case study will be presented as an example of a food crop nutritionally enhanced through the application of modern biotechnology (i.e., recombinant DNA techniques) to illustrate how the 2004 recommendations provide a robust paradigm for the safety assessment of "real world" examples of improved nutrition crops.
China is the country possessing the largest amount of trade and consumption of medicinal plants in the world. Research and application of gene engineering on medicinal plants are the one of the most promising ways to increase the productivity and quality of medicinal plants, reduce the resource stress, and enhance the competitive power and sustainable development ability of the medicinal plants industry. In spite of the great progress in research and application of plant gene engineering worldwide, the research of gene transformation has mostly been conducted on some model plants, and the application of transgenic plant has been limited to a few staple and important crop species. For medicinal plants, recently the researches of gene transformation has emerged, however, compared with other crop and economic plants, it is still a very limited amount. On the basis of a general introduction of application of transgenic plants, this paper focuses on the present situation of the research and application of gene engineering on medicinal plants, to put forward the problems in this field, and give a prospect for its development.
Although aquaculture is among the fastest growing food production sectors in the world, one of the bottlenecks for the continuity of its expansion is the dependence of animal protein on commercial feed formulations. Vegetable proteins are an alternative due to the low cost and high availability. However, this protein source is accompanied by a series of antinutritional and pro-inflammatory compounds, including phytate. Phytases can be added in feed for phytate degradation and increase nutrient availability. However, the use of purified phytases significantly increases the production costs. An interesting alternative is to use probiotics genetically modified as bioreactors for phytase production. In the present study, a strain of Bacillus subtilis secreting a fungal phytase was used to evaluate the effect of a feed with high content of soybean meal on zebrafish (Danio rerio). We analysed the condition factor (K) of fish, and the expression of genes related to the immune system, inflammatory response and oxidative. stress. The results obtained demonstrate that the transgenic probiotic was efficient in improving the fish condition factor, stimulating the immune system, reducing the inflammatory response and oxidative stress. Thus, probiotics acting as phytase bioreactors can be considered an interesting tool for the adaptation of commercial species to feed of lower cost.
In the present work, we evaluated the chronic effects of the transgenic insect-resistant rice carrying Cry1Ac and sck genes on Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats through a 78-week feeding study. Based on the gender and weight, 180 SD rats were randomly and evenly assigned into three groups. GM rice and non-GM rice were separately formulated into diets at high levels. AIN-93 diet was used as a nutritional control. Body weight, food consumption, hematology and serum chemistry were monitored regularly. Rats were sacrificed for organ weight measurement and pathological examination at 52 weeks and 78 weeks. Body weight, food consumption, mortality rates, tumor incidences and pathological findings showed no significant difference among the three groups. Although certain differences in some hematology, serum chemistry parameters and relative organ weights were observed between GM rice group and control groups, they were not considered as treatment-related. Taken together, long-term intake of transgenic rice carrying Cry1Ac and sck genes at a high level exerts no unintended adverse effects on rats.
Tuberculosis (TB) is the most prevalent bacterial infectious disease in the world, caused by the pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). In this study, we have used Mycobacterium marinum (Mm) infection in zebrafish larvae as an animal model for this disease to study the role of the myeloid differentiation factor 88 (Myd88), the key adapter protein of Toll-like receptors. Previously, Myd88 has been shown to enhance innate immune responses against bacterial infections, and in the present study, we have investigated the effect of Myd88 deficiency on the granuloma morphology and the intracellular distribution of bacteria during Mm infection. Our results show that granulomas formed in the tail fin from myd88 mutant larvae have a more compact structure and contain a reduced number of leukocytes compared to the granulomas observed in wild-type larvae. These morphological differences were associated with an increased bacterial burden in the myd88 mutant. Electron microscopy analysis showed that the majority of Mm in the myd88 mutant are located extracellularly, whereas in the wild type, most bacteria were intracellular. In the myd88 mutant, intracellular bacteria were mainly present in compartments that were not electron-dense, suggesting that these compartments had not undergone fusion with a lysosome. In contrast, approximately half of the intracellular bacteria in wild-type larvae were found in electron-dense compartments. These observations in a zebrafish model for tuberculosis suggest a role for Myd88-dependent signalling in two important phenomena that limit mycobacterial growth in the infected tissue. It reduces the number of leukocytes at the site of infection and the acidification of bacteria-containing compartments inside these cells.
Although the rat is a preferred model in many fields of biomedical sciences, the inability to generate germline competent embryonic stem (ES) cells was a major drawback for research activities that aimed to elucidate gene functions. Several alternative strategies like N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) or transposon-mediated mutagenesis were developed successfully for this species. Countless experiments in many laboratories around the world were undertaken to overcome this problem. Eventually, the successful establishment of rat ES cells and rat-induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells was reported, 27 years after the first reported generation of mouse ES cells. Furthermore, the application of zinc-finger nucleases (ZFNs) to early-stage rat embryos demonstrated effectively that another way existed for generating knockout rats. ZFNs require only the standard techniques that are used to produce transgenic animals and are expected to comprise a major tool for the gene-targeted generation of knockout animals. These newly developed tools, in conjunction with the solid basis of the rat in the area of physiological and behavioral experiments, will not only close the gap between the rat and the mouse as the mammalian genetic model of choice, but also boost the significance of the rat as a model animal in research laboratories around the globe.
Cotton is an important crop that is continuously cultivated around the world. However, its production has decreased in recent times due to wide ranging insects and also current practices of using synthetic insecticides that are not precise and their residues impairing the biodiversity. Hence, the search for newer classes of efficient entomotoxic proteins continues. Genetically modified cotton crops with cry genes from Bacillus thuringiensis, have been cultivated across the world, which overcome the chewing type insect menace. In the present study, we assess the development of transgenic cotton plants by Agrobacterium, wherein the confirmed kanamycin resistant T0 plants were advanced to T1 generation and the gene integration was studied by molecular analysis. Western blot and ELISA assays demonstrated the expression of 0.46% lectin of the total soluble leaf proteins. In planta bioassay showed 69% of aphid, Aphis gossypii population reduction with T1 generation plants. Whereas 100% insect mortality is occurred in Spodoptera litura larvae by 96 h. Present findings shows the potent insecticidal effect of Sclerotium rolfsii lectin on sucking (homopteran) and chewing (lepidopteron) insects, underlining its significance and strengthening genetic resources in cotton breeding against different order insect pests.
Liver cancer remains to be a major health concern in the world today. Several major risk factors such as hepatitis viral infection and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis have been well established for causing liver cancer, but the contribution of environmental pollutants to liver inflammation and carcinogenesis remains poorly studied. Here, we aimed at the development of a rapid assay to test selected environmental toxicants for their potential roles in induction of inflammation and stimulation of liver tumorigenesis. By using an established kras oncogene transgenic zebrafish model for liver cancer, we tested a total of eight selected chemicals. First, using LPS (lipopolysaccharides) as a positive control, we confirmed its effects on induction of inflammation and stimulation of liver tumorigenesis as indicated by increases of neutrophils and the size of oncogenic livers respectively. Next, we tested two heavy metals (arsenic and chromium) and five organic toxicants (bisphenol A, lindane, N-nitrosodiethylamine, and 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl [PCB126], and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin [TCDD]). We observed a good correlation on induction of inflammation and their ability for stimulation of liver tumorigenesis. Most toxicants, namely chromium, bisphenol A, lindane, N-nitrosodiethylamine, and PCB126, resulted in increased inflammation and liver tumorigenesis, while arsenic and TCDD had opposite effects. Thus, our study established a screening system to rapidly assess the effects of candidate chemicals on liver tumorigenesis and inflammation.
Environmental risk assessment (ERA) of genetically modified (GM) crops is a process to evaluate whether the biotechnology trait(s) in a GM crop may result in increased pest potential or harm to the environment. In this analysis, two GM insect-resistant (IR) herbicide-tolerant maize hybrids (MON-89Ø34-3 × MON-88Ø17-3 and MON-89Ø34-3 × MON-ØØ6Ø3-6) and one herbicide-tolerant GM hybrid (MON-ØØ6Ø3-6) were compared with conventional maize hybrids of similar genetic backgrounds. Two sets of studies, Experimental Phase and Pilot Phase, were conducted across five ecological regions (ecoregions) in Mexico during 2009-2013, and data were subject to meta-analysis. Results from the Experimental Phase studies, which were used for ERA, indicated that the three GM hybrids were not different from conventional maize for early stand count, days-to-silking, days-to-anthesis, root lodging, stalk lodging, or final stand count. Statistically significant differences were observed for seedling vigor, ear height, plant height, grain moisture, and grain yield, particularly in the IR hybrids; however, none of these phenotypic differences are expected to contribute to a biological or ecological change that would result in an increased pest potential or ecological risk when cultivating these GM hybrids. Overall, results from the Experimental Phase studies are consistent with those from other world regions, confirming that there are no additional risks compared to conventional maize. Results from Pilot Phase studies indicated that, compared to conventional maize hybrids, no differences were detected for the agronomic and phenotypic characteristics measured on the three GM maize hybrids, with the exception of grain moisture and grain yield in the IR hybrids. Since MON-89Ø34-3 × MON-88Ø17-3 and MON-89Ø34-3 × MON-ØØ6Ø3-6 confer resistance to target insect pests, they are an alternative for farmers in Mexico to protect the crop from insect damage. Additionally, the herbicide tolerance conferred by all three GM hybrids enables more cost-effective weed management.
Background:                       Domesticated einkorn (Triticum monococcum L.) is one of the oldest cultivated cereal crops in the world. Its small genome size (~ 5.7 GB), low ploidy (2n = 2x = 14, AmAm) and high genetic polymorphism make this species very attractive for use as a diploid model for understanding the genomics and proteomics of Triticeae. Einkorn, however, is still a recalcitrant monocotyledonous species for the application of modern biotechnologies, including transgenesis. This paper reports the factors that may influence transgene delivery, integration, expression and inheritance in einkorn.                  Results:                       In this study, we report the successful genetic transformation of einkorn using biolistic-mediated DNA delivery. Immature embryo-derived tissues of spring einkorn were bombarded with a plasmid containing the reporter gene GFP (green fluorescent protein) driven by the rice actin promoter (act1) and the selectable bar gene (bialaphos resistance gene) driven by the maize ubiquitin promoter (ubi1). Adjustments to various parameters such as gas pressure, microcarrier size and developmental stage of target tissue were essential for successful transient and stable transformation. Bombarded einkorn tissues are recalcitrant to regenerating plants, but certain modifications of the culture medium have been shown to increase the production of transgenic events. In various experiments, independent transgenic plants were produced at frequencies ranging from 0.0 to 0.6%. Molecular analysis, marker gene expression and herbicide treatment demonstrated that gfp/bar genes were stably integrated into the einkorn genome and successfully inherited over several generations. The transgenes, as dominant loci, segregated in both Mendelian and non-Mendelian fashion due to multiple insertions. Fertile homozygous T1-T2 populations of transgenic einkorn that are resistant to herbicides were selected.                  Conclusion:                       To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of the production of genetically modified einkorn plants. We believe that the results of our research could be a starting point for the application of the current biotechnological-based technologies, such as transgenesis and genome editing, to accelerate comparative functional genomics in einkorn and other cereals.
Effective community engagement is an important legal, ethical, and practical prerequisite for conducting field trials of genetically modified mosquitoes, because these studies can substantially impact communities and it is usually not possible to obtain informed consent from each community member. Researchers who are planning to conduct field trials should develop a robust community engagement strategy that meets widely recognized standards for seeking approval from the affected population, such as timeliness, consent, information sharing, transparency, understanding, responsiveness, mutual understanding, inclusiveness, and respectfulness. Additional research is needed on the effectiveness of different methods of engaging communities in field trials of genetically modified mosquitoes and how to respond to public opposition to genetically modified organisms. For research programs involving the genetic modification of disease vectors to move forward, they must have public acceptance and support, which cannot be achieved without effective community engagement.
Obesity is the most prevalent disease in the world which poses a serious risk for various chronic diseases. However, currently there are not any therapeutic agents that reduce body weight without causing serious side effects. In order to prevent and/or treat obesity and related diseases through a nutraceutical approach, we created a resveratrol-enriched transgenic rice accumulating 1.4 μg/g of resveratrol in its grain, DJ-526. Feeding of mice with the resveratrol-enriched rice DJ-526 showed excellent anti-obesity effect with reduction of body weights and abdominal fat volumes compared to the control by 20.0% and 31.3%, respectively. Also, the consumption of the resveratrol-enriched rice DJ526 significantly improved the blood lipid profiles and glucose levels in the animal experiments. Our resveratrol-enriched rice DJ-526 rice could provide both safe and convenient way for people with obesity and related diseases without major change of lifestyle or unwanted side effects from medication.
Background:                       Ethanol is one of the most commonly used drugs in the world. We are interested in the compensatory mechanisms used by the nervous system to counter the effects of ethanol intoxication. Recently, the slowpoke BK-type calcium-activated potassium channel gene has been shown to be involved in ethanol sensitivity in Caenorhabditis elegans and in rapid tolerance to the anesthetic benzyl alcohol in Drosophila.                  Methods:                       We used Drosophila mutants to investigate the role of slowpoke in rapid tolerance to sedation with ethanol vapor. Rapid tolerance was defined as a reduction in the sedative phase caused by a single previous sedation. The ethanol and water contents of flies were measured to determine if pharmacodynamic changes could account for tolerance.                  Results:                       A saturated ethanol air stream caused sedation in <20 min and resulted in rapid tolerance that was apparent 4 hr after sedation. Two independently isolated null mutations in the slowpoke gene eliminated the capacity for tolerance. In addition, a third mutation that blocked expression specifically in the nervous system also blocked rapid tolerance. Water measurements showed that both ethanol and mock sedation caused equivalent dehydration. Furthermore, a single prior exposure to ethanol did not cause a change in the ethanol clearance rate.                  Conclusions:                       Rapid tolerance, measured as a reduction in the duration of sedation, is a pharmacokinetic response to ethanol that does not occur without slowpoke expression in the nervous system in Drosophila. The slowpoke channel must be involved in triggering or producing a homeostatic mechanism that opposes the sedative effects of ethanol.
Soybean (Glycine max) is one of the most important crops in the world, and its yield is largely determined by grain weight and grain size. However, the genes that regulate soybean seed size have not been identified. CYP78A, which is highly conserved within terrestrial plants, regulates organ development. In Arabidopsis, AtCYP78A5/KLU has been shown to determine seed size. In the present study, soybean CYP78A72 (GmCYP78A72), one of the orthologs of KLU, was over-expressed in both Arabidopsis and soybean to examine its function in plant development. GmCYP78A72 heterologous expression in Arabidopsis resulted in enlarged sepals, petals, seeds and carpel. Over-expression of GmCYP78A72 in soybean resulted in increased pea size, which is an extremely desirable trait for enhancing productivity. Moreover, knock-down of GmCYP78A72 does not reduce grain size. However, silencing of GmCYP78A57, GmCYP78A70 and GmCYP78A72 genes in triplet reduces the seed size significantly indicating functional redundancy of these three GmCYP78A genes. In conclusion, we investigated the role of CYP78A in soybean seed regulation, and our strategy can be effectively used to engineer large seed traits in soybean varieties as well as other crops.
Roundup-Ready soybeans have been genetically modified to resist the effects of the herbicidal glyphosate and have become the most prevalent transgenic crop in the world. In this work, Roundup-Ready soybeans were used as raw material to study the effects of critical processing procedures such as grinding, cooking, blending, homogenization, sterilization, and spray-drying on the length of DNA fragments of an endogenous gene (lectin) and an exogenous gene (epsps) examined in material from three soybean foods of bean curd, soy milk, and soy powder and from samples taken during their processing. The results showed that various processing procedures caused degradations of both the endogenous and exogenous genes to different degrees. In the grinding procedure, endogenous gene DNA was degraded from 1883 to approximately 836 bp, and exogenous gene DNA was degraded from 1512 to approximately 408 bp. In the blending and squeeze-molding procedures, exogenous gene DNA was also degraded from about 408 to 190 bp, but there was no obvious action on the endogenous gene. After the endogenous and exogenous genes had been degraded to some degree, such as 836 and 408 bp, respectively, they were not evidently affected by cooking procedure at 100 degrees C for 15 min. However, the endogenous gene was further considerably degraded from around 836 to 162 bp in the sterilization procedure at 121 degrees C for 30 s. The effect of the homogenization step on endogenous and exogenous genes was similar to that of the cooking procedure. The coagulation procedure, principally a biochemical reaction, did not greatly affect the exogenous gene but did affect endogenous gene, reducing DNA size from about 836 to 407 bp. Furthermore, the spray-drying procedure, a process of physical shearing, high temperature, and sudden high pressure, distinctly caused degradation of both the lectin and epsps genes, rapidly decreasing the sizes from about 836 to 162 bp for the endogenous gene and from about 408 to 190 bp for the exogenous gene.
Establishing topographical maps of the external world is an important but still poorly understood feature of the vertebrate sensory system. To study the selective innervation of hindbrain regions by sensory afferents in the zebrafish embryo, we mapped the fine-grained topographical representation of sensory projections at the central level by specific photoconversion of sensory neurons. Sensory ganglia located anteriorly project more medially than do ganglia located posteriorly, and this relates to the order of sensory ganglion differentiation. By single-plane illumination microscopy (SPIM) in vivo imaging, we show that (1) the sequence of arrival of cranial ganglion inputs predicts the topography of central projections, and (2) delaminated neuroblasts differentiate in close contact with the neural tube, and they never loose contact with the neural ectoderm. Afferent entrance points are established by plasma membrane interactions between primary differentiated peripheral sensory neurons and neural tube border cells with the cooperation of neural crest cells. These first contacts remain during ensuing morphological growth to establish pioneer axons. Neural crest cells and repulsive slit1/robo2 signals then guide axons from later-differentiating neurons toward the neural tube. Thus, this study proposes a new model by which the topographical representation of cranial sensory ganglia is established by entrance order, with the entry points determined by cell contact between the sensory ganglion cell bodies and the hindbrain.
Glyphosate is the most widely used herbicide in world agriculture and for general vegetation control in a wide range of situations. Global and often intensive glyphosate selection of very large weedy plant populations has resulted in widespread glyphosate resistance evolution in populations of many weed species. Here, working with a glyphosate-resistant (GR) Echinochloa colona population that evolved in a Western Australia agricultural field, we identified an ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter (EcABCC8) that is consistently up-regulated in GR plants. When expressed in transgenic rice, this EcABCC8 transporter endowed glyphosate resistance. Equally, rice, maize, and soybean overexpressing the EcABCC8 ortholog genes were made resistant to glyphosate. Conversely, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of the EcABCC8 ortholog gene OsABCC8 increased rice susceptibility to glyphosate. Subcellular localization analysis and quantification of glyphosate cellular levels in treated ABCC8 transgenic rice plants and isolated leaf protoplasts as well as structural modeling support that EcABCC8 is likely a plasma membrane-localized transporter extruding cytoplasmic glyphosate to the apoplast, lowering the cellular glyphosate level. This is a report of a membrane transporter effluxing glyphosate in a GR plant species, and its function is likely conserved in crop plant species.
The aim of this study was to investigate the space mutagenesis of genetically engineered bacteria expressing recombinant human interferon α1b. The genetically engineered bacteria expressing the recombinant interferon α1b were sent into outer space on the Chinese Shenzhou VIII spacecraft. After the 17 day space flight, mutant strains that highly expressed the target gene were identified. After a series of screening of spaceflight-treated bacteria and the quantitative comparison of the mutant strains and original strain, we found five strains that showed a significantly higher production of target proteins, compared with the original strain. Our results support the notion that the outer space environment has unique effects on the mutation breeding of microorganisms, including genetically engineered strains. Mutant strains that highly express the target protein could be obtained through spaceflight-induced mutagenesis.
The kiwifruit (Actinidia chinensis Planch.) is an economically and nutritionally important fruit crop that has a remarkably high vitamin C content and is popular throughout the world. However, kiwifruit plants are vulnerable to attack from pests, and effective pest control is urgently required. Transgenic kiwifruit plants containing the synthetic chimeric gene SbtCry1Ac that encodes the insecticidal protein btCrylAc were obtained through an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of kiwifruit leaf discs. The kanamycin resistance of the transgenic plants was then analyzed. Results from polymerase chain reactions and genomic DNA Southern blot analyses indicated that SbtCrylAc had been integrated into the genomes of these plants. The results of insect bioassays revealed that the average Oraesia excavate inhibition rate of plants tested at 10 days post-infestation was 75.2%. To our knowledge, this is the first study that has developed insect-resistant transgenic kiwifruit plants.
Rice (Oryza sativa) is the primary source of food for more than half of the world population. Most rice varieties are severely injured by abiotic stresses, with strong social and economic impact. Understanding rice responses to stress may help breeding for more tolerant varieties. However, papers dealing with stress experiments often describe very different experimental designs, thus making comparisons difficult. The use of identical setups is the only way to generate comparable data. This chapter is organized into three sections, describing the experimental conditions established at the Genomics of Plant Stress (GPlantS) unit of ITQB to assess the response of rice plants to three different abiotic stresses--high salinity, cold stress, and drought. All sections include a detailed description of the materials and methodology, as well as useful notes gathered from the GPlantS team's experience. We use rice seedlings as plants at this stage show high sensitivity to abiotic stresses. For the salt and cold stress assays we use hydroponic cultures, while for the drought assay plants are grown in soil and subjected to water withholding. All setups enable visual score determination and are suitable for sample collection along the imposition of stress. The proposed methodologies are simple and affordable to implement in most labs, allowing the discrimination of several rice genotypes at the molecular and phenotypic level.
In mosquitoes, the olfactory system plays a crucial role in many types of behavior, including nectar feeding, host preference selection and oviposition. Aedes albopictus, known also as the tiger mosquito, is an anthropophilic species, which in the last few years, due to its strong ecological plasticity, has spread throughout the world. Although long considered only a secondary vector of viruses, the potential of its vector capacity may constitute a threat to public health. Based on the idea that an improved understanding of the olfactory system of mosquitoes may assist in the development of control methods that interfere with their behavior, we have undertaken a study aimed at characterizing the A. albopictus Odorant Receptors. Here we report the identification, cloning and functional characterization of the AalOR2 ortholog, that represents the first candidate member of the odorant receptor (OR) family of proteins from A. albopictus. AalOR2 is expressed in the larval heads and antennae of adults. Our data indicate that A. albopictus OR2 (AalOR2) shares a high degree of identity with other mosquito OR2 orthologs characterized to date, confirming that OR2 is one of the most conserved mosquito ORs. Our data indicate that AalOR2 is narrowly tuned to indole, and inhibited by (-)-menthone. In agreement with this results, these two compounds elicit two opposite effects on the olfactory-based behavior of A. albopictus larvae, as determined through a larval behavioral assay. In summary, this work has led to the cloning and de-orphaning of the first Odorant Receptor in the tiger mosquito A. albopictus. In future control strategies this receptor may be used as a potential molecular target.
Agriculture faces serious problems in feeding 9 billion people by 2050: production must be increased and ecosystem services maintained under conditions for growing crops that are predicted to worsen in many parts of the world. A proposed solution is sustainable intensification of agriculture, whereby yields are increased on land that is currently cultivated, so sparing land to deliver other ecosystem services. Genetically modified (GM) crops are already contributing to sustainable intensification through higher yields and lower environmental impacts, and have potential to deliver further significant improvements. Despite their widespread successful use elsewhere, the European Union (EU) has been slow to introduce GM crops: decisions on applications to import GM commodities are lengthy, and decision-making on applications to cultivate GM crops has virtually ceased. Delayed import approvals result in economic losses, particularly in the EU itself as a result of higher commodity prices. Failure to grant cultivation approvals costs EU farmers opportunities to reduce inputs, and results in loss of agricultural research and development from the EU to countries such as the United States and China. Delayed decision-making in the EU ostensibly results from scientific uncertainty about the effects of using GM crops; however, scientific uncertainty may be a means to justify a political decision to restrict cultivation of GM crops in the EU. The problems associated with delayed decision-making will not improve until there is clarity about the EU's agricultural policy objectives, and whether the use of GM crops will be permitted to contribute to achieving those objectives.
Glyphosate is the most widely used herbicide in the world. In South Africa, glyphosate is predominantly used in the production of herbicide-tolerant (HT) maize and soybean. Considering that maize is a staple food and soybean an important source of protein, this study aimed to determine whether glyphosate is present in food products consumed by the general population in South Africa. Food products (81) were purchased from local supermarkets and screened for the presence of glyphosate and HT events using ELISA and real-time PCR, respectively. The majority of products contained glyphosate (66.7%) but at a level below the maximum residue limit. Glyphosate HT event(s) were detected in 70.4% of products but not associated with the presence of glyphosate in all products. This study has confirmed that South African consumers are exposed to low levels of glyphosate reported to cause genotoxic effects at the cellular level.
Background:                       The ability to engineer cereal crops by gene transfer technology is a powerful and informative tool for discovering and studying functions of genes controlling environmental adaptability and nutritional value. Tetraploid wheat species such as emmer wheat and Timopheevi wheat are the oldest cereal crops cultivated in various world areas long before the Christian era. Nowadays, these hulled wheat species are gaining new interest as donors for gene pools responsible for the improved grain yield and quality, tolerance for abiotic and biotic stress, resistance to pests and disease. The establishing of efficient gene transfer techniques for emmer and Timopheevi wheat may help in creation of modern polyploid wheat varieties.                  Results:                       In the present study, we describe a robust protocol for the production of fertile transgenic plants of cultivated emmer wheat (Russian cv. 'Runo') using a biolistic delivery of a plasmid encoding the gene of green fluorescent protein (GFP) and an herbicide resistance gene (BAR). Both the origin of target tissues (mature or immature embryos) and the type of morphogenic calli (white or translucent) influenced the efficiency of stable transgenic plant production in emmer wheat. The bombardment of nodular white compact calluses is a major factor allowed to achieve the highest transformation efficiency of emmer wheat (on average, 12.9%) confirmed by fluorescence, PCR, and Southern blot. In the absence of donor plants for isolation of immature embryos, mature embryo-derived calluses could be used as alternative tissues for recovering transgenic emmer plants with a frequency of 2.1%. The biolistic procedure based on the bombardment of immature embryo-derived calluses was also successful for the generation of transgenic Triticum timopheevii wheat plants (transformation efficiency of 0.5%). Most of the primary events transmitted the transgene expression to the sexual progeny.                  Conclusion:                       The procedures described here can be further used to study the functional biology and contribute to the agronomic improvement of wheat. We also recommend involving in such research the Russian emmer wheat cv. 'Runo', which demonstrates a high capacity for biolistic-mediated transformation, exceeding the previously reported values for different genotypes of polyploid wheat.
Aims:                       Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the most common malignant tumors in the world. Anti-angiogenic therapy is a useful strategy for the treatment of advanced GC. This study was aimed to systemically compare the anti-angiogenesis, anti-cancer efficacy, as well as the safety of four known anti-angiogenic drugs, namely ramucirumab, apatinib, regorafenib and cabozantinib.                  Main methods:                       Anti-angiogenic effect was evaluated for the intersegmental vessels (ISVs) and subintestinal veins (SIVs) formation in the Tg (fli-1: EGFP) zebrafish embryos. Anti-cancer efficacy was tested for the in vivo cell proliferation in cell line derived tumor xenograft (CDX) model based on Tg (fli-1: EGFP) zebrafish embryos.                  Key findings:                       All four drugs exhibited anti-angiogenic abilities and tumor inhibition effects in fli-1: EGFP transgenic zebrafish. Using zebrafish xenografted model, we found that effectiveness of ramucirumab in anti-GC-proliferation is better than apatinib, regorafenib and cabozantinib. The combination of anti-angiogenic drugs and cisplatin showed no significant benefit in tumors. Meanwhile, toxicity assay showed that all tested anti-angiogenic drugs could cause cardiovascular-related side effects. The therapeutic index (LD50/ED50) of cabozantinib is higher than apatinib and regorafenib, suggesting a potential as an anti-GC drug.                  Significance:                       The comparison of GC-related anti-angiogenic drugs was first reported. It was found that cabozantinib had a potential as an anti-GC drug. Zebrafish model was an ideal animal model for the research of anti-angiogenic behaviors.
The rapid uptake of biotech crops around the world demonstrates not only strong producer and consumer demand for the technology and its products, but also that where regulatory regimes function effectively and markets are allowed to operate as normal, co-existence between genetically modified (GM) and non-GM supply chains is readily achievable. However, the polarized debate over GMOs within the European Union over the past 15 years has resulted in a highly politicized and progressively impractical approach to the issue of GM crop co-existence, which in itself has become a further barrier to the technology's development. This article argues that co-existence should not be treated as a pro- or anti-GM issue, and that the aim of co-existence measures should be to permit consumer choice and freedom to operate whatever the production method involved. It suggests that supply chain-based solutions to co-existence, rather than Government prescription, offer the most pragmatic and flexible response to the commercial realities of servicing differentiated market demands.
Rice is one of the most important staple foods in the world. The Cry2A gene was inserted into the rice genome to help the plant combat insects. As the unintended effects of the genetically modified (GM) organisms are the most important barriers to the promotion of GM organisms, we have carried out a useful exploration to establish a new in vivo evaluation model for genetically modified foods by metabonomics methods. In this study, the rats were fed for 90 days with the GM and NON-GM rice diets. The changes in metabolites of the urine were detected using (1)H-NMR. The metabonomics were analyzed to see whether the GM rice can induce the metabolite changes in the rats' urine when compared with the NON-GM rice group. The multivariate analysis and ANOVA were used to determine the differences and the significance of differences respectively, and eventually we concluded that these differences did not have a biological significance. The conclusion of the metabonomics was comparable with that from the traditional method. As a non-invasive and dynamic monitoring method, metabonomics will be a new way of assessing the food safety of GM foods.
Source attribution studies report that the consumption of contaminated poultry is the primary source for acquiring human campylobacteriosis. Oral administration of an engineered Escherichia coli strain expressing the Campylobacter jejuni N-glycan reduces bacterial colonization in specific-pathogen-free leghorn chickens, but only a fraction of birds respond to vaccination. Optimization of the vaccine for commercial broiler chickens has great potential to prevent the entry of the pathogen into the food chain. Here, we tested the same vaccination approach in broiler chickens and observed similar efficacies in pathogen load reduction, stimulation of the host IgY response, the lack of C. jejuni resistance development, uniformity in microbial gut composition, and the bimodal response to treatment. Gut microbiota analysis of leghorn and broiler vaccine responders identified one member of Clostridiales cluster XIVa, Anaerosporobacter mobilis, that was significantly more abundant in responder birds. In broiler chickens, coadministration of the live vaccine with A. mobilis or Lactobacillus reuteri, a commonly used probiotic, resulted in increased vaccine efficacy, antibody responses, and weight gain. To investigate whether the responder-nonresponder effect was due to the selection of a C. jejuni "supercolonizer mutant" with altered phase-variable genes, we analyzed all poly(G)-containing loci of the input strain compared to nonresponder colony isolates and found no evidence of phase state selection. However, untargeted nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)-based metabolomics identified a potential biomarker negatively correlated with C. jejuni colonization levels that is possibly linked to increased microbial diversity in this subgroup. The comprehensive methods used to examine the bimodality of the vaccine response provide several opportunities to improve the C. jejuni vaccine and the efficacy of any vaccination strategy.IMPORTANCECampylobacter jejuni is a common cause of human diarrheal disease worldwide and is listed by the World Health Organization as a high-priority pathogen. C. jejuni infection typically occurs through the ingestion of contaminated chicken meat, so many efforts are targeted at reducing C. jejuni levels at the source. We previously developed a vaccine that reduces C. jejuni levels in egg-laying chickens. In this study, we improved vaccine performance in meat birds by supplementing the vaccine with probiotics. In addition, we demonstrated that C. jejuni colonization levels in chickens are negatively correlated with the abundance of clostridia, another group of common gut microbes. We describe new methods for vaccine optimization that will assist in improving the C. jejuni vaccine and other vaccines under development.
A rigorous safety assessment process exists for GM crops. It includes evaluation of the introduced protein as well as the crop containing such protein with the goal of demonstrating the GM crop is "as-safe-as" non-transgenic crops in the food supply. One of the major issues for GM crops is the assessment of the expressed protein for allergenic potential. Currently, no single factor is recognized as an identifier for protein allergenicity. Therefore, a weight-of-evidence approach, which takes into account a variety of factors and approaches for an overall assessment of allergenic potential, is conducted [Codex Alimentarious Commission, 2003. Alinorm 03/34: Joint FAO/WHO Food Standard Programme, Codex Alimentarious Commission, Twenty-Fifth Session, Rome, Italy, 30 June-5 July, 2003. Appendix III, Guideline for the conduct of food safety assessment of foods derived from recombinant-DNA plants, and Appendix IV, Annex on the assessment of possible allergenicity, pp. 47-60]. This assessment is based on what is known about allergens, including the history of exposure and safety of the gene(s) source; protein structure (e.g., amino acid sequence identity to human allergens); stability to pepsin digestion in vitro [Thomas, K. et al., 2004. A multi-laboratory evaluation of a common in vitro pepsin digestion assay protocol used in assessing the safety of novel proteins. Regul. Toxicol. Pharmacol. 39, 87-98]; an estimate of exposure of the novel protein(s) to the gastrointestinal tract where absorption occurs (e.g., protein abundance in the crop, processing effects); and when appropriate, specific IgE binding studies or skin prick testing. Additional approaches may be considered (e.g., animal models; targeted sera screening) as the science evolves; however, such approaches have not been thoroughly evaluated or validated for predicting protein allergenicity.
Verticillium wilt is threatening the world's cotton production. The pathogenic fungus Verticillium dahliae can survive in the soil in the form of microsclerotia for a long time, colonize through the root of cotton, and invade into vascular bundles, causing yellowing and wilting of cotton leaves, and in serious cases, leading to plant death. Breeding resistant varieties is the most economical and effective method to control Verticillium wilt. In previous studies, proteomic analysis was carried out on different cotton varieties inoculated with V. dahliae strain Vd080. It was found that GhRPS6 was phosphorylated after inoculation, and the phosphorylation level in resistant cultivars was 1.5 times than that in susceptible cultivars. In this study, knockdown of GhRPS6 expression results in the reduction of SA and JA content, and suppresses a series of defensive response, enhancing cotton plants susceptibility to V. dahliae. Overexpression in Arabidopsis thaliana transgenic plants was found to be more resistant to V. dahliae. Further, serines at 237 and 240 were mutated to phenylalanine, respectively and jointly. The transgenic Arabidopsis plants demonstrated that seri-237 compromised the plant resistance to V. dahliae. Subcellular localization in Nicotiana benthamiana showed that GhRPS6 was localized in the nucleus. Additionally, the pathogen inoculation and phosphorylation site mutation did not change its localization. These results indicate that GhRPS6 is a potential molecular target for improving resistance to Verticillium wilt in cotton. This lays a foundation for breeding disease-resistant varieties.
The New World screwworm (NWS), Cochliomyia hominivorax (Coquerel) (Diptera: Calliphoridae), was the first insect to be effectively controlled using the sterile insect technique (SIT). Recent efforts to improve SIT control of this species have centred on the development of genetically transformed strains using the piggyBac transposon vector system. Eight transgenic strains were produced incorporating an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) marker gene under polyubiquitin regulation that has the potential for use as a genetic marking system for released males. The transgenic strains were genetically and phenotypically characterized, including for life fitness parameters and mating competitiveness. These characteristics were unique for each strain and thus some strains were deemed suitable for incorporation into SIT eradication programmes. The strain with the best attributes is designated 'CLAY'. Four of the strains, including CLAY, have been successfully cryopreserved so that their original characteristics should be unchanged when further evaluation is required. With the demonstration of efficient germ-line transformation in NWS, allowing production of fit and competitive transformants, it is now possible to consider further transgenic strain development to improve SIT that are currently being tested in other dipteran species. This includes strains that allow genetic marking with fluorescent proteins, genetic sexing by female lethality, male-specific fluorescent sorting and male sterility by testis-specific lethality. The SIT may also be improved upon by new strategies resulting in lethality of offspring of released insects using conditional lethal systems based upon temperature-dependent or dietary tetracycline regulation of lethal gene expression. Both the creation of new NWS transgenic strains and the ecological safety of their release will be enhanced by new vector systems that allow specific genomic targeting of vector constructs and their subsequent immobilization, ensuring transgene and strain stability.
Tomato is one of the most cultivated vegetables in the world and an important ingredient of the human diet. Tomato breeders and growers face a continuous challenge of combining high quantity (production volume) with high quality (appearance, taste and perception for the consumers, processing quality for the processing industry). To improve the quality of tomato, it is important to understand the regulation of fruit development and of fruit cellular structure, which is in part determined by the sizes and numbers of cells within a tissue. The role of the cell cycle therein is poorly understood. Plant cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are homologues of yeast cdc2, an important cell cycle regulator conserved throughout all eukaryotes. CDKA1 is constitutively expressed during the cell cycle and has dual functions in S- and M-phase progression. We have produced transgenic tomato plants with increased expression of CDKA1 under the control of the fruit-specific TPRP promoter, which despite a reduced number of seeds and diminished amount of jelly, developed fruits with weight and shape comparable to that of wild-type fruits. However, the phenotypic changes with regard to the pericarp thickness and placenta area were remarkable. Fruits of tomato plants with the highest expression of CDKA1 had larger septa and columella (placenta), compared with wild-type fruits. Our data demonstrate the possibility of manipulating the ratio between cell division and expansion by changing the expression of a key cell cycle regulator and probably its activity with substantial effects on structural traits of the harvested fruit.
Water deprivation causes substantial losses in crop yields around the world. In this study, we show that when overexpressed in transgenic rice (Oryza sativa), the bZIP transcription factor OsABF1 confers distinctly different drought-tolerance phenotypes when tethered to the transcriptional activator VP16 versus the transcriptional repressor EAR. We performed chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) and RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) assays on transgenic rice lines and determined that OsABF1 binds to DNA sequences containing an ACGT core motif. Analysis of the overlap between the RNA-sequencing and chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing data identified 242 OsABF1 target genes involved in multiple aspects of the drought response. Overexpression of one of these genes, COR413-TM1, which encodes a putative thylakoid membrane protein, resulted in a drought-tolerance phenotype without obvious side effects. In addition, OsABF1 directly regulates the expression of the protein phosphatase 2C (OsPP48 and OsPP108) and bZIP (OsbZIP23, OsbZIP46, and OsbZIP72) genes, thus forming a complex feedback circuit in the drought/abscisic acid signaling pathway.
Rice (Oryza sativa) stands among the world's most important crop species. Rice is salt sensitive, and the undue accumulation of sodium ions (Na+) in shoots has the strongest negative correlation with rice productivity under long-term salinity. The plasma membrane Na+/H+ exchanger protein Salt Overly Sensitive 1 (SOS1) is the sole Na+ efflux transporter that has been genetically characterized to date. Here, the importance of SOS1-facilitated Na+ flux in the salt tolerance of rice was analyzed in a reverse-genetics approach. A sos1 loss-of-function mutant displayed exceptional salt sensitivity that was correlated with excessive Na+ intake and impaired Na+ loading into the xylem, thus indicating that SOS1 controls net root Na+ uptake and long-distance Na+ transport to shoots. The acute Na+ sensitivity of sos1 plants at low NaCl concentrations allowed analysis of the transcriptional response to sodicity stress without effects of the osmotic stress intrinsic to high-salinity treatments. In contrast with that in the wild type, sos1 mutant roots displayed preferential down-regulation of stress-related genes in response to salt treatment, despite the greater intensity of stress experienced by the mutant. These results suggest there is impaired stress detection or an inability to mount a comprehensive response to salinity in sos1 In summary, the plasma membrane Na+/H+ exchanger SOS1 plays a major role in the salt tolerance of rice by controlling Na+ homeostasis and possibly contributing to the sensing of sodicity stress.
The rapid development of biotechnology, particularly the transgenic technology, has brought us with tremendous opportunities to solve the world's starvation problems that have been caused by the continued expanding of the global population. However, the application of transgenic biotechnology and the environmental release of transgenic organisms have evoked a series of extraordinary debates on biosafety issues related to the prosperity and the future of transgenic technology. The public and scientific communities are desperately interested in knowing whether the transgenic products would pose negative influences on plants and animals, human life and health, as well as on genetic resources and environment. These concerns have become universal hot topics over the last decade. Among the most debated biosafety issues caused potentially by transgenic products, transgene escape to the environment and its consequent ecological risks become one of the appealing focal points. In this review, a series of biosafety issues concerned by public, including the possibility of transgene escape and its various paths, as well as the potential ecological risks caused by such escape were discussed, and various approaches for controlling for transgene escape and the factors to consider when designing safety isolation distance between transgenic varieties and other concerned plants were also examined. The objective of this review is to allow readers to understand the potential biosafety problems caused by environmental release of transgenic crops and by the escape of foreign transgenes in particular, and to use the effective tools to control and avoid transgene escape.
In GhCFE5 homoeologs, GhCFE5D interacted with more actin homologs and stronger interaction activity than GhCFE5A. GhCFE5D - but not GhCFE5A -overexpression severely disrupted actin cytoskeleton organization and significantly suppressed cell elongation. Homoeologous genes are common in polyploid plants; however, their functional divergence is poorly elucidated. Allotetraploid Upland cotton (Gossypium hirsutum, AADD) is the most widely cultivated cotton; accounting for more than 90 % of the world's cotton production. Here, we characterized GhCFE5A and GhCFE5D homoeologs from G. hirsutum acc TM-1. GhCFE5 homoeologs are expressed preferentially in fiber cells; and a significantly greater accumulation of GhCFE5A mRNA than GhCFE5D mRNA was found in all tested tissues. Overexpression of GhCFE5D but not GhCFE5A seriously inhibits the Arabidopsis hypocotyl and root cell elongation. Yeast two-hybrid assay and bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) analysis showed that compared with GhCFE5A, GhCFE5D interacts with more actin homologs and has a stronger interaction activity both from Arabidopsis and Upland cotton. Interestingly, subcellular localization showed that GhCFE5 resides on the cortical endoplasmic reticulum (ER) network and is colocalized with actin cables. The interaction activities between GhCFE5 homoeologs and actin differ in their effects on F-actin structure in transgenic Arabidopsis root cells. The F-actin changed direction from vertical to lateral, and the actin cytoskeleton organization was severely disrupted in GhCFE5D-overexpressing root cells. These data support the functional divergence of GhCFE5 homoeologs in the actin cytoskeleton structure and cell elongation, implying an important role for GhCFE5 in the evolution and selection of cotton fiber.
Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is a critical hormone regulating reproduction in mammals. Transgenic mice show that overexpression of FSH can improve female fecundity. Using a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) system and somatic cell nuclear transfer, we herein generated 67 Large White transgenic (TG) boars harboring FSHα/β genes from Chinese Erhualian pigs, the most prolific breed in the world. We selected two F0 TG boars for further breeding and conducted molecular characterization and biosafety assessment for F1 boars. We showed that 8-9 copies of exogenous FSHα and 5-6 copies of exogenous FSHβ were integrated into the genome of transgenic pigs. The inheritance of exogenous genes conforms to the Mendel's law of segregation. TG boars had higher levels of serum FSH, FSHα mRNA in multiple tissues, FSHβ protein in pituitary and more germ cells per seminiferous tubule compared with their wild-type half sibs without any reproductive defects. Analysis of growth curve, hematological and biochemical parameters and histopathology illustrated that TG boars grew healthily and normally. By applying 16S rRNA gene sequencing, we demonstrated that exogenous genes had no impact on the bacterial community structures of pig guts. Moreover, foreign gene drift did not occur as verified by horizontal gene transfer. Our findings indicate that overexpression of FSH could improve spermatogenesis ability of boars. This work provides insight into the effect of FSHα/β genes on male reproductive performance on pigs by a BAC-mediated transgenic approach.
Malaria infects 500 million people and kills an estimated 2.7 million annually, representing one of the most significant diseases in the world. However, efforts to develop effective vaccines have met with limited success. One reason is our lack of basic knowledge of how and where the immune system responds to parasite antigens. This is important as the early events during induction of an immune response influence the acquisition of effector function and development of memory responses. Our knowledge of the interactions of Plasmodia with the host immune system has largely been derived through in vitro study. This is a significant issue as the component parts of the immune system do not work in isolation and their interactions occur in distinct and specialized micro- and macro-anatomical locations that can only be assessed in the physiological context, in vivo. In this context, the availability of transgenic malaria parasites over the last 10 years has greatly enhanced our ability to understand and evaluate factors involved in host-parasite interactions in vivo. In this article, we review the current status of this area and speculate on what parasite transgenesis approaches will tell us about the development of Plasmodium-specific immune responses in the future.
Cochliomyia hominivorax and Lucilia cuprina are major pests of livestock. Their larvae infest warm-blooded vertebrates and feed on host's tissues, resulting in severe industry losses. As they are serious pests, considerable effort has been made to develop genomic resources and functional tools aiming to improve their management and control. Here, we report a significant addition to the pool of genome manipulation tools through the establishment of efficient CRISPR/Cas9 protocols for the generation of directed and inheritable modifications in the genome of these flies. Site-directed mutations were introduced in the Chominivorax and Lcuprina yellow genes (ChY and LcY) producing lightly pigmented adults. High rates of somatic mosaicism were induced when embryos were injected with Cas9 ribonucleoprotein complexes (RNPs) pre-assembled with guide RNAs (sgRNAs) at high concentrations. Adult flies carrying disrupted yellow alleles lacked normal pigmentation (brown body phenotype) and efficiently transmitted the mutated alleles to the subsequent generation, allowing the rapid creation of homozygous strains for reverse genetics of candidate loci. We next used our established CRISPR protocol to disrupt the Chominivorax transformer gene (Chtra). Surviving females carrying mutations in the Chtra locus developed mosaic phenotypes of transformed ovipositors with characteristics of male genitalia while exhibiting abnormal reproductive tissues. The CRISPR protocol described here is a significant improvement on the existing toolkit of molecular methods in calliphorids. Our results also suggest that Cas9-based systems targeting Chtra and Lctra could be an effective means for controlling natural populations of these important pests.
Demand for the commercial use of genetically modified (GM) crops has been increasing in light of the projected growth of world population to nine billion by 2050. A prerequisite of paramount importance for regulatory submissions is the rigorous safety assessment of GM crops. One of the components of safety assessment is molecular characterization at DNA level which helps to determine the copy number, integrity and stability of a transgene; characterize the integration site within a host genome; and confirm the absence of vector DNA. Historically, molecular characterization has been carried out using Southern blot analysis coupled with Sanger sequencing. While this is a robust approach to characterize the transgenic crops, it is both time- and resource-consuming. The emergence of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies has provided highly sensitive and cost- and labor-effective alternative for molecular characterization compared to traditional Southern blot analysis. Herein, we have demonstrated the successful application of both whole genome sequencing and target capture sequencing approaches for the characterization of single and stacked transgenic events and compared the results and inferences with traditional method with respect to key criteria required for regulatory submissions.
Sclerotinia sclerotiorum is a serious pathogen of numerous crops around the world. The major virulence factor of this pathogen is oxalic acid (OA). Mutants that cannot produce OA do not cause disease, and plants that express enzymes that degrade OA, such as oxalate oxidase (OxO), are very resistant to S. sclerotiorum. To examine the effect of OA on plants, we infiltrated soybean leaves with 5 mm OA and examined the gene expression changes at 2 h post-infiltration. By comparing the gene expression levels between leaves of a transgenic soybean carrying an OxO gene (OxO) and its parent AC Colibri (AC) infiltrated with OA (pH 2.4) or water (pH 2.4 or 5.5), we were able to compare the effects of OA dependent or independent of its pH. Gene expression by microarray analysis identified 2390 genes that showed changes in expression, as determined using an overall F-test P-value cut-off of 0.001. The additional requirement that at least one pairwise t-test false discovery rate (FDR)-corrected P value should be less than 0.001 reduced the list of the most highly significant differentially expressed genes to 1054. Independent of pH, OA altered the expression levels of 78 genes, with ferritin showing the strongest induction by OA. The combination of OA plus its low pH caused 1045 genes (99% of all significant genes) to be differentially expressed, with many of the up-regulated genes being related to basal defence, such as genes of the phenylpropanoid pathway and various cytochrome P450s. RNA-seq was also conducted on four samples: OxO and AC genotypes infiltrated with either OA pH 2.4 or water pH 2.4. The RNA-seq analysis also identified ferritin paralogues as being strongly induced by OA. As the expression of ferritin, a gene that encodes for an iron storage protein, is induced by free iron, these results suggest that S. sclerotiorum benefits from the ability of OA to free iron from plant proteins, as this induces host cell death, and also allows the uptake and assimilation of the iron for its own metabolic needs.
Drought is the most important environmental stress affecting agriculture worldwide. Exploiting yield potential and maintaining yield stability of crops in water-limited environments are urgent tasks that must be undertaken in order to guarantee food supply for the increasing world population. Tremendous efforts have been devoted to identifying key regulators in plant drought response through genetic, molecular, and biochemical studies using, in most cases, the model species Arabidopsis thaliana. However, only a small portion of these regulators have been explored as potential candidate genes for their application in the improvement of drought tolerance in crops. Based on biological functions, these genes can be classified into the following three categories: (1) stress-responsive transcriptional regulation (e.g. DREB1, AREB, NF-YB); (2) post-transcriptional RNA or protein modifications such as phosphorylation/dephosphorylation (e.g. SnRK2, ABI1) and farnesylation (e.g. ERA1); and (3) osomoprotectant metabolism or molecular chaperones (e.g. CspB). While continuing down the path to discovery of new target genes, serious efforts are also focused on fine-tuning the expression of the known candidate genes for stress tolerance in specific temporal and spatial patterns to avoid negative effects in plant growth and development. These efforts are starting to bear fruit by showing yield improvements in several crops under a variety of water-deprivation conditions. As most such evaluations have been performed under controlled growth environments, a gap still remains between early success in the laboratory and the application of these techniques to the elite cultivars of staple crops in the field. Nevertheless, significant progress has been made in the identification of signaling pathways and master regulators for drought tolerance. The knowledge acquired will facilitate the genetic engineering of single or multiple targets and quantitative trait loci in key crops to create commercial-grade cultivars with high-yielding potential under both optimal and suboptimal conditions.
Mosquito-borne diseases such as malaria and dengue fever continue to be a major health problem through much of the world. Several new potential approaches to disease control utilize gene drive to spread anti-pathogen genes into the mosquito population. Prior to a release, these projects will require trials in outdoor cages from which transgenic mosquitoes may escape, albeit in small numbers. Most genes introduced in small numbers are very likely to be lost from the environment; however, gene drive mechanisms enhance the invasiveness of introduced genes. Consequently, introduced transgenes may be more likely to persist than ordinary genes following an accidental release. Here, we develop stochastic models to analyze the loss probabilities for several gene drive mechanisms, including homing endonuclease genes, transposable elements, Medea elements, the intracellular bacterium Wolbachia, engineered underdominance genes, and meiotic drive. We find that Medea and Wolbachia present the best compromise between invasiveness and containment for the six gene drive systems currently being considered for the control of mosquito-borne disease.
As the field of synthetic biology develops, real-world applications are moving from the realms of ideas and laboratory-confined research towards implementation. A pressing concern, particularly with microbial systems, is that self-replicating re-engineered cells may produce undesired consequences if they escape or overwhelm their intended environment. To address this biosafety issue, multiple mechanisms for constraining microbial replication and horizontal gene transfer have been proposed. These include the use of host-construct dependencies such as toxin-antitoxin pairs, conditional plasmid replication or the requirement for a specific metabolite to be present for cellular function. While refactoring of the existing genetic code or tailoring of orthogonal systems, e.g. xeno nucleic acids, offers future promise of more stringent 'firewalls' between natural and synthetic cells, here we focus on what can be achieved using existing technology. The state-of-the-art in designing for biosafety is summarized and general recommendations are made (e.g. short environmental retention times) for current synthetic biology projects to better isolate themselves against potentially negative impacts.
The contamination of mycotoxins associated with head blight of wheat and other grains caused by Fusarium graminearum is chronic threat to crop, human and animal health throughout the world. Deoxinevalenol (DON), produced by the fungus, belonging to class trichothecene is believed to act as a virulence factor in fungal pathogenesis by inhibiting eukaryotic protein synthesis, thereby blocking or delaying the expression of defense related proteins induced by host plant. The putative site of action of DON is 60s ribosomal protein L3 (RPL3). In order to reduce the effects of DON in the host plants, we modified tomato RPL3 (LeRPL3) to introduce W25R/H259Y mutations so that amino acid residue 258 is changed from tryptophan to arginine and 259 from histidine to tyrosine. Transgenic tobacco plants expressing these modified LeRPL3 cDNAs were tested for growth pattern of T1 seedlings in presence of DON. When seedling of these transgenic tobacco plants were compared for growth in the presence of DON, a significant difference in growth rate and the ability to undergo differentiation was observed among those plants expressing the modified version of the Rp13 gene, compared to those expressing the wild-type Rp13 gene. Expression of the tagged gene product indicates that is was not due to somaclonal variation. These results indicate a possible mechanism of host plant resistance to the fungal pathogen F. graminearum among the susceptible cereal species based on the expression ofmodified Rp13 genes.
This year, 30 million acres of the corn, cotton, and potatoes planted in the United States will have been genetically engineered to produce an endotoxin normally found in the microbe Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), a self-contained pesticide that will be toxic only to target insects. Transgenic pest-resistant crops are a cost-effective alternative to chemical pesticides, and may offer a way to help feed the world's growing population with minimal environmental impact.
Expectations play a powerful role in driving technological change. Expectations are often encapsulated in narratives of technological promise that emphasize potential benefits and downplay potential negative impacts. Genetically modified (GM, transgenic) crops have been framed by expectations that they would be an intrinsically "pro-poor" innovation that would contribute powerfully to international agricultural development. However, expectations typically have to be scaled back in the light of experience. Published reviews of the socio-economic impacts of GM crops among poor, small-scale farmers in the developing world indicate that these effects have been very mixed and contingent on the agronomic, socio-economic and institutional settings where the technology has been applied. These conclusions should modulate expectations about the pro-poor potential of GM crop technology and focus attention on the conditions under which it might deliver substantial and sustainable benefits for poor farmers. However, the idea of GM crop technology as an intrinsically pro-poor developmental success story has been sustained in academic, public and policy arenas. This narrative depends upon an analysis that disembeds the technology from the technical, social and institutional contexts in which it is applied. Agricultural development policy should be based on a more rigorous and dispassionate analysis, rather than optimistic expectations alone.
RNA silencing is an innate antiviral immunity response of plants and animals. To counteract this host immune response, viruses have evolved an effective strategy to protect themselves by the expression of viral suppressors of RNA silencing (VSRs). Most potyviruses encode two VSRs, helper component-proteinase (HC-Pro) and viral genome-linked protein (VPg). The molecular biology of the former has been well characterized, whereas how VPg exerts its function in the suppression of RNA silencing is yet to be understood. In this study, we show that infection by Turnip mosaic virus (TuMV) causes reduced levels of suppressor of gene silencing 3 (SGS3), a key component of the RNA silencing pathway that functions in double-stranded RNA synthesis for virus-derived small interfering RNA (vsiRNA) production. We also demonstrate that among 11 TuMV-encoded viral proteins, VPg is the only one that interacts with SGS3. We furthermore present evidence that the expression of VPg alone, independent of viral infection, is sufficient to induce the degradation of SGS3 and its intimate partner RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 6 (RDR6). Moreover, we discover that the VPg-mediated degradation of SGS3 occurs via both the 20S ubiquitin-proteasome and autophagy pathways. Taken together, our data suggest a role for VPg-mediated degradation of SGS3 in suppression of silencing by VPg.                  Importance:                       Potyviruses represent the largest group of known plant viruses and cause significant losses of many agriculturally important crops in the world. In order to establish infection, potyviruses must overcome the host antiviral silencing response. A viral protein called VPg has been shown to play a role in this process, but how it works is unclear. In this paper, we found that the VPg protein of Turnip mosaic virus (TuMV), which is a potyvirus, interacts with a host protein named SGS3, a key protein in the RNA silencing pathway. Moreover, this interaction leads to the degradation of SGS3 and its interacting and functional partner RDR6, which is another essential component of the RNA silencing pathway. We also identified the cellular pathways that are recruited for the VPg-mediated degradation of SGS3. Therefore, this work reveals a possible mechanism by which VPg sabotages host antiviral RNA silencing to promote virus infection.
Coccidiosis is one of the most serious diseases of livestock and birds in the world. Vaccination with live-parasite anticoccidial vaccines with genetic manipulation improving the immunogenicity of vaccine strains would be the best means for controlling coccidiosis in breeder and layer stocks, even in fast-growing broilers. Profilin from apicomplexan parasites is the first molecularly defined ligand for Toll-like receptor 11 (TLR11) and TLR12 in mice and is a potential molecular adjuvant. Here, we constructed a transgenic Eimeria tenella line (Et-EmPro) expressing the profilin of Eimeria maxima, the most immunogenic species of chicken coccidia, and evaluated the adjuvant effects of EmPro on the immunogenicity of E. tenella We found that immunization with the transgenic Eimeria parasites, compared with the wild type, elicited greater parasite antigen-specific cell-mediated immunity, characterized by increased numbers of interferon gamma (IFN-γ)-secreting lymphocytes. The transgenic parasite also induced better protective immunity against E. tenella challenge than the wild type. In addition, the diversity of the fecal microbiome of the birds immunized with the transgenic parasite differed from that of the microbiome of the wild-type-immunized birds, indicating interactions of Eimeria with the gut microbiome of chickens. Our results showing enhanced immunogenicity of E. tenella by use of EmPro as a molecular adjuvant derived from the most immunogenic affinis species represent a large step forward in the development of the next generation of coccidiosis vaccines using Eimeria as a vaccine platform expressing molecular adjuvants and potentially other pathogen antigens against not only coccidiosis but also other infectious diseases.
Identification of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) parasporal crystalline inclusions composed of Cry proteins (=delta-endotoxins) resulted in introduction of microbial pesticides for biological control of some parasites. Delta-endotoxins are encoded by cry genes and are active against pest and nuisance insects (mostly mosquitoes and black flies--vectors of still important infectious diseases). The recent significant progress in DNA recombination technique may overcome limitations (a short residual persistence and a narrow spectrum of activity) associated with application of Bt conventional products. An introduction of cry genes from mosquitocidal subspecies B. th. israelensis (Bti) to the aquatic microorganisms inhabiting the same water bodies as mosquito and fly larvae (Diptera), has considerably improved the toxin delivery system to target insects. However, in the first experiments, in which Bti genes were cloned in cyanobacteria (Agmenellum quadruplicatum, Synechocystis PCC6803), a low gene expression was observed. Thus, it was necessary to integrate cry genes with strong promoters or to increase the number of vector-introduced copies. To overcome the obstacles of low gene expression and regulatory restriction for recombinant organisms, Bti spore/crystal formulations were encapsulated in the aquatic protozoan, Tetrahymena pyriformis. Large numbers of crystals (180 to 240/cell) were accumulated in its food vacuoles. This system resulted also in an increase in toxin persistence from 24 to 71 h. Cloning Bti genes in B. sphaericus (which also produces mosquitocidal proteins) was another way of an increasing Bt crystal residual activity. In this case, the crystals were additionally protected by B. sphaericus exosporium. These transgenic bacteria produced large amounts of delta-endotoxins that remained under water surface longer than the wild B. sphaericus strains. Moreover, they had a broader spectrum of insecticidal activity, because B. sphaericus is toxic mostly to Culex and Anopheles, and Bti--mostly to Culex, Aedes and some Simmulidae. Gram-negative bacteria (Asticcacaulis excentricus, Caulobacter crescentus and Ancylobacter aquaticus) turned out also to be effective delta-endotoxin producers. They grow on simple media and do not contain proteases which could degrade Cry proteins. In some cases, 100% mosquito larvae mortality was observed as a result of an exposure to transgenic microorganisms containing Bti genes. However, transgenic techniques are still not very popular in the world, despite their efficacy in biological control of insects. The transgenic organism construction is expensive and time-consuming. Genetic engineering is still raising a lot of anxieties and doubts concerning inappropriate use of modified organisms. On the other hand, this technology could solve many problems associated with vectors of important diseases, which are still unapproachable to contemporary medicine.
Larvae of the Old World corn earworm, Helicoverpa armigera (Hübner), were fed diets containing lyophilized silks from maize genotypes expressing varying levels of maysin, a flavone glycoside known to be toxic to the New World corn earworm, Helicoverpa zea Boddie. Three different H. armigera colonies were tested: a wild-type colony (96-S), a colony selected for resistance to deltamethrin (Del-R), and a colony selected for resistance to the Cry1Ac protoxin of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt-R). A colony of H. zea was also tested as a control. High-maysin silk diets significantly slowed the growth and arrested the development of larvae from all H. armigera colonies compared with low-maysin silk diets, maysin-lacking silk diets, and no-silk control diets. The effects on the H. armigera and H. zea colonies were similar across maysin levels, although H. zea is a larger insect than H. armigera and this overall size difference was observed. Among the H. armigera colonies, maysin effects were generally similar, although 7-d-old Del-R larvae were significantly smaller than 7-d-old Bt-R and 96-S larvae for one no-silk control and two maysin-containing silk treatments. The toxic effect of maysin on the Bt-R and Del-R colonies suggests that physiological mechanisms of H. armigera resistance to Cry1Ac and deltamethrin do not confer cross-resistance to maysin.
Background:                       Brazil is the largest grower of the world's 26 million ha of sugarcane, Saccharum officinarum. Pest damage mainly by the sugarcane borer, Diatraea saccharalis (F.), is a great challenge to the sugarcane industry. To control D. saccharalis, Brazil launched the world's first commercial use of Bt sugarcane in 2017. As part of the resistance management programs for Bt sugarcane planting, 535 F2 isoline families of D. saccharalis collected from three major sugarcane planting states (Goiás, Minas Gerais and São Paulo) in Brazil during 2019-2020 were screened for resistance to two Bt sugarcane varieties: CTC20BT expressing Cry1Ab and CTC9001BT expressing Cry1Ac. Here we report the results of the first study related to Bt resistance in a sugarcane cropping system.                  Results:                       Larval survivorships of these families in an F2 screen on CTC20BT were highly correlated with their survival on CTC9001BT, whereas the Cry1Ac tissues exhibited greater insecticidal activities than Cry1Ab. Resistance allele frequencies (RAFs) for populations from Goiás and Minas Gerais were relatively low at 0.0034 for Cry1Ab and 0.0045 to Cry1Ac. By contrast, RAFs for São Paulo populations were considerably greater (0.0393 to Cry1Ab, 0.0245 to Cry1Ac).                  Conclusions:                       RAFs to Cry1Ab and Cry1Ac varied among Brazilian D. saccharalis populations. Prior selection resulting from an intensive use of single-gene Bt maize under low compliance of refuge planting could be a main factor contributing to the high RAF in São Paulo. The results suggest that mitigation measures including sufficient non-Bt maize refuge planting, effective resistance monitoring, and use of pyramided Bt sugarcane traits should be implemented promptly to prevent further increase in the RAF to ensure the sustainable use of Bt sugarcane in Brazil.                  Mini abstract:                       To control Diatraea saccharalis, Brazil launched the world's first commercial use of Bt sugarcane in 2017. As part of the resistance management programs for Bt sugarcane planting in Brazil, 535 F2 isoline families of D. saccharalis collected from three major sugarcane planting states (Goiás, Minas Gerais and São Paulo) in Brazil during 2019-2020 were screened for resistance to Cry1Ab and Cry1Ac sugarcane plants Resistance allele frequencies (RAFs) for the populations from Goiás and Minas Gerais were relatively low at 0.0034 for Cry1Ab and 0.0045 to Cry1Ac. By contrast, RAFs for the São Paulo populations were considerably greater (0.0393 to Cry1Ab, 0.0245 to Cry1Ac). Prior selection resulting from an intensive use of single-gene Bt maize under low compliance of non-Bt maize refuge planting could be a main factor contributing to the high RAF in São Paulo. The results suggest that effective mitigation measures including sufficient non-Bt maize refuge planting, effective resistance monitoring and use of pyramided Bt sugarcane traits should be implemented promptly to prevent further increase in the RAF to ensure the sustainable use of Bt sugarcane in Brazil. © 2022 Society of Chemical Industry.
Genetic engineering approaches offer an alternative method to the conventional breeding of Citrus sp. 'W. Murcott' mandarin (a hybrid of 'Murcott' and an unknown pollen parent) is one of the most commercially important cultivars grown in many regions around the world. Transformation of 'W. Murcott' mandarin was achieved by direct DNA uptake using a protoplast transformation system. DNA construct (pAO3), encoding Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) and the cDNA of Xa21, a Xanthomonas resistance gene from rice, was used to transform protoplasts of 'W. Murcott' mandarin. Following citrus protoplast culture and regeneration, transformed micro calli were microscopically designated via GFP expression, physically isolated from non-transformed tissue, and cultured on somatic embryogenesis induction medium. More than 150 transgenic embryos were recovered and from them, ten transgenic lines were regenerated and cultured on rooting medium for shoot elongation. Transgenic shoots were micrografted and established in the greenhouse with 3-5 replicates per line. The insertion of Xa21 and GFP was confirmed by PCR and southern blot analysis. GFP expression was verified by fluorescence microscopy and western blot analysis revealed expression of Xa21 although it was variable among transgenic lines, as shown by RT-qPCR. Transgenic plants challenged with the citrus canker pathogen by syringe inoculation showed a reduction in lesion number and bacterial populations within lesions compared to non-transgenic control plants. Transgenic 'W. Murcott' mandarin lines with improved canker resistance via protoplast transformation from embryogenic callus with the Xa21 gene from rice are being evaluated under field conditions to validate the level of resistance.
Background:                       Despite of many advances in the treatment of malaria, it is still the fifth most prevalent disease worldwide and is one of the major causes of death in the developing countries which accounted for 584,000 deaths in 2013, as estimated by World Health Organization. Artemisinin from Artemisia annua is still one of the most effective treatments for malaria. Increasing the artemisinin content of A. annua plants by genetic engineering would improve the availability of this much-needed drug.                  Methods:                       In this regard, a high artemisinin-yielding hybrid of A. annua produced by the centre for novel agricultural products of the University of York, UK, was selected (artemisinin maximally 1.4 %). As rol genes are potential candidates of biochemical engineering, genetic transformation of A. annua with Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 harbouring vectors with rol B and rol C genes was carried out with the objective of enhancement of artemisinin content. Transgenic lines produced were analysed by the LC-MS for quantitative analysis of artemisinin and analogues. These high artemisinin yielding transgenics were also analysed by real time quantitative PCR to find the molecular dynamics of artemisinin enhancement. Genes of artemisinin biosynthetic pathway were studied including amorphadiene synthase (ADS), cytochrome P450, (CYP71AV1) and aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (ALDH1). Trichome-specific fatty acyl-CoA reductase 1(TAFR1) is an enzyme involved in both trichome development and sesquiterpenoid biosynthesis and both processes are important for artemisinin biosynthesis. Thus, real time qPCR analysis of the TAFR1 gene was carried out, and trichome density was determined.                  Results:                       Transgenics of rol B gene showed two- to ninefold (the decimal adds nothing in the abstract, please simplify to two- to ninefold) increase in artemisinin, 4-12-fold increase in artesunate and 1.2-3-fold increase in dihydroartemisinin. Whereas in the case of rol C gene transformants, a fourfold increase in artemisinin, four to ninefold increase in artesunate and one- to twofold increase in dihydroartemisinin concentration was observed. Transformants with the rol B gene had higher expression of these genes than rol C transformants. TAFR1 was also found to be more expressed in rol gene transgenics than wild type A. annua, which was also in accordance with the trichome density of the respective plant.                  Conclusion:                       Thus it was proved that rol B and rol C genes are effective in the enhancement of artemisinin content of A. annua, rol B gene being more active to play part in this enhancement than rol C gene.
The transgenic Bt cotton plant has been widely planted throughout the world for the control of cotton budworm Helicoverpa armigera (Hubner). However, a shift towards insect tolerance of Bt cotton is now apparent. In this study, the gene encoding neuropeptide F (NPF) was cloned from cotton budworm H. armigera, an important agricultural pest. The npf gene produces two splicing mRNA variants-npf1 and npf2 (with a 120-bp segment inserted into the npf1 sequence). These are predicted to form the mature NPF1 and NPF2 peptides, and they were found to regulate feeding behaviour. Knock down of larval npf with dsNPF in vitro resulted in decreases of food consumption and body weight, and dsNPF also caused a decrease of glycogen and an increase of trehalose. Moreover, we produced transgenic tobacco plants transiently expressing dsNPF and transgenic cotton plants with stably expressed dsNPF. Results showed that H. armigera larvae fed on these transgenic plants or leaves had lower food consumption, body size and body weight compared to controls. These results indicate that NPF is important in the control of feeding of H. armigera and valuable for production of potential transgenic cotton.
Most of the commercialized insect resistant transgenic crops express cry gene(s) isolated from Bacillus thuringiensis; however, intensive cultivation of Bt crops over almost two decades has been questioned regarding its sustainability and durability in pest management. The present study focused on silencing of highly specific molting-associated Ecdysone receptor (EcR) gene of Colorado potato beetle (CPB) using RNA interference (RNAi) approach. The partial cDNA of EcR gene of CPB was amplified using specific primers in sense and anti-sense orientations, and cloned in pRNAi-GG vector flanked by an intronic sequence (pdk). Leaf and internodal explants of Agria and Lady Olympia potato cultivars were infected with Agrobacterium strain LBA4404 harboring constructs under the control of CaMV 35S promoter. Standard molecular analysis of primary transformants showed proper integration of T-DNA in plant genome. The transgenic plants of both cultivars were evaluated for their efficacy against first, second and third instar CPB larvae. The leaf biotoxicity assays revealed 15-80% of CPB mortality. A significantly lower fold-change (0.87-4.14×) in larval weight was observed in insects fed on transgenic plants compared to the ones fed on control plants (1.87-6.53×). Furthermore, CPB larvae fed on transgenic plants exhibited reduced EcR transcripts, indicating the functionality of dsRNA EcR in silencing EcR gene expression. This study is an excellent example of the integration of an alternative, effective and reliable method to cope with potato insect pests that incur significant losses to potato production in the world.
Tuberculosis is a current major world-health problem, exacerbated by the causative pathogen, Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), becoming increasingly resistant to conventional antibiotic treatment. Mtb is able to counteract the bactericidal mechanisms of leukocytes to survive intracellularly and develop a niche permissive for proliferation and dissemination. Understanding of the pathogenesis of mycobacterial infections such as tuberculosis (TB) remains limited, especially for early infection and for reactivation of latent infection. Signaling via hypoxia inducible factor α (HIF-α) transcription factors has previously been implicated in leukocyte activation and host defence. We have previously shown that hypoxic signaling via stabilization of Hif-1α prolongs the functionality of leukocytes in the innate immune response to injury. We sought to manipulate Hif-α signaling in a well-established Mycobacterium marinum (Mm) zebrafish model of TB to investigate effects on the host's ability to combat mycobacterial infection. Stabilization of host Hif-1α, both pharmacologically and genetically, at early stages of Mm infection was able to reduce the bacterial burden of infected larvae. Increasing Hif-1α signaling enhanced levels of reactive nitrogen species (RNS) in neutrophils prior to infection and was able to reduce larval mycobacterial burden. Conversely, decreasing Hif-2α signaling enhanced RNS levels and reduced bacterial burden, demonstrating that Hif-1α and Hif-2α have opposing effects on host susceptibility to mycobacterial infection. The antimicrobial effect of Hif-1α stabilization, and Hif-2α reduction, were demonstrated to be dependent on inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) signaling at early stages of infection. Our findings indicate that induction of leukocyte iNOS by stabilizing Hif-1α, or reducing Hif-2α, aids the host during early stages of Mm infection. Stabilization of Hif-1α therefore represents a potential target for therapeutic intervention against tuberculosis.
Background:                       The hop plant (Humulus lupulus L.) is a valuable source of several secondary metabolites, such as flavonoids, bitter acids, and essential oils. These compounds are widely implicated in the beer brewing industry and are having potential biomedical applications. Several independent breeding programs around the world have been initiated to develop new cultivars with enriched lupulin and secondary metabolite contents but met with limited success due to several constraints. In the present work, a pioneering attempt has been made to overexpress master regulator binary transcription factor complex formed by HlWRKY1 and HlWDR1 using a plant expression vector to enhance the level of prenylflavonoid and bitter acid content in the hop. Subsequently, we performed transcriptional profiling using high-throughput RNA-Seq technology in leaves of resultant transformants and wild-type hop to gain in-depth information about the genome-wide functional changes induced by HlWRKY1 and HlWDR1 overexpression.                  Results:                       The transgenic WW-lines exhibited an elevated expression of structural and regulatory genes involved in prenylflavonoid and bitter acid biosynthesis pathways. In addition, the comparative transcriptome analysis revealed a total of 522 transcripts involved in 30 pathways, including lipids and amino acids biosynthesis, primary carbon metabolism, phytohormone signaling and stress responses were differentially expressed in WW-transformants. It was apparent from the whole transcriptome sequencing that modulation of primary carbon metabolism and other pathways by HlWRKY1 and HlWDR1 overexpression resulted in enhanced substrate flux towards secondary metabolites pathway. The detailed analyses suggested that none of the pathways or genes, which have a detrimental effect on physiology, growth and development processes, were induced on a genome-wide scale in WW-transgenic lines.                  Conclusions:                       Taken together, our results suggest that HlWRKY1 and HlWDR1 simultaneous overexpression positively regulates the prenylflavonoid and bitter acid biosynthesis pathways in the hop and thus these transgenes are presented as prospective candidates for achieving enhanced secondary metabolite content in the hop.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are environmental toxicants primarily produced during incomplete combustion; some are carcinogens. PAHs can be safely metabolized or, paradoxically, bioactivated via specific cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes to more reactive metabolites, some of which can damage DNA and proteins. Among the CYP isoforms implicated in PAH metabolism, CYP1A enzymes have been reported to both sensitize and protect from PAH toxicity. To clarify the role of CYP1A in PAH toxicity, we generated transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans that express CYP1A at a basal (but not inducible) level. Because this species does not normally express any CYP1 family enzyme, this approach permitted a test of the role of basally expressed CYP1A in PAH toxicity. We exposed C. elegans at different life stages to either the PAH benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) alone, or a real-world mixture dominated by PAHs extracted from the sediment of a highly contaminated site on the Elizabeth River (VA, USA). This site, the former Atlantic Wood Industries, was declared a Superfund site due to coal tar creosote contamination that caused very high levels (in the [mg/mL] range) of high molecular weight PAHs within the sediments. We demonstrate that CYP1A protects against BaP-induced growth delay, reproductive toxicity, and reduction of steady state ATP levels. Lack of sensitivity of a DNA repair (Nucleotide Excision Repair)-deficient strain suggested that CYP1A did not produce significant levels of DNA-reactive metabolites from BaP. The protective effects of CYP1A in Elizabeth River sediment extract (ERSE)-exposed nematodes were less pronounced than those seen in BaP-exposed nematodes; CYP1A expression protected against ERSE-induced reduction of steady-state ATP levels, but not other outcomes of exposure to sediment extracts. Overall, we find that in C. elegans, a basal level of CYP1A activity is protective against the examined PAH exposures.
Iron deficiency affects one third of the world population. Most iron biofortification strategies have focused on genes involved in iron uptake and storage but facilitating internal long-distance iron translocation has been understudied for increasing grain iron concentrations. Citrate is a primary iron chelator, and the transporter FERRIC REDUCTASE DEFECTIVE 3 (FRD3) loads citrate into the xylem. We have expressed AtFRD3 in combination with AtNAS1 (NICOTIANAMINE SYNTHASE 1) and PvFER (FERRITIN) or with PvFER alone to facilitate long-distance iron transport together with efficient iron uptake and storage in the rice endosperm. The citrate and iron concentrations in the xylem sap of transgenic plants increased two-fold compared to control plants. Iron and zinc levels increased significantly in polished and unpolished rice grains to more than 70% of the recommended estimated average requirement (EAR) for iron and 140% of the recommended EAR for zinc in polished rice grains. Furthermore, the transformed lines showed normal phenotypic growth, were tolerant to iron deficiency and aluminum toxicity, and had grain cadmium levels similar to control plants. Together, our results demonstrate that deploying FRD for iron biofortification has no obvious anti-nutritive effects and should be considered as an effective strategy for reducing human iron deficiency anemia.
The western corn rootworm (WCR), Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte, is the most serious insect pest of corn (Zea mays L.) in the United States and parts of Europe, and arguably one of the world's most expensive pests to control. Several diet formulations are currently used by industry and public researchers to evaluate WCR larvae in diet-toxicity bioassays. However, a publicly available diet that produces normative insects that are physiologically similar to WCR larvae reared on corn roots will accelerate development of management technologies. We report a new diet formulation that supports improved weight gain, larval development and survival compared with the only public diet for WCR that is currently available in the refereed literature. The formulation was created by using response surface methods combined with n-dimensional mixture designs to identify and improve the formulation of key ingredients. Weight gain increased two-fold, and survival and molting rates increased from 93% and 90%, respectively when reared on the public diet, to approximately 99% for both survival and molting at 11 days when reared on our new formulation. This new formulation provides a standardized growth medium for WCR larvae that will facilitate comparison of research results from various working groups and compliance with regulatory requirements.
Soymilk, tofu, corn masa, and cooked potato were produced from transgenic raw materials and the effect of processing on the degradation of DNA was studied. Major degrading factors were for soymilk and tofu the mechanical treatment of soaked soybeans and for corn masa and cooked potatoes the thermal treatment. In the processed foods no DNA fragments > 1.1 kb were detected. We included in our studies the effect of the size of donor DNA and length of the homologous sequence on the marker rescue transformation of B. subtilis LTH 5466, which was monitored by restoration of deleted nptII. When DNA fragments (168, 414, 658, and 792 bp) of nptII and linearized plasmid DNA (pGEM-T-1, 3168 bp and pGEM-T-2, 3792 bp) containing the 168 bp or 792 bp fragments, respectively, were used as donor DNA, it was observed that the efficiency of marker rescue decreased with decreasing length of homologous sequence. The use of a larger plasmid (pMR2, 5786 bp) containing the 792 bp fragment revealed higher efficiency of marker rescue compared to pGEM-T-2. The nptII fragments resulted in lower efficiencies compared to plasmid DNA containing the same fragment. For the 792 bp fragment and the linearized plasmid pMR2 a first-order dependency of the frequency of marker rescue transformation on the DNA concentration was observed. Based on the acquired data, the hypothetical frequency of transformation of transgenic DNA to B. subtilis in cooked potatoes was calculated to be equal to 8.5 x 10(-19) and 1.2 x 10(-27) for homologous and illegitimate recombination, respectively. These data permit to roughly estimate the time after which a person (10(8) years) or the world population (15 days) is exposed to one transformant generated by homologous recombination event, when the daily consumption per person is 130 g of cooked potatoes.
Pathogenic fungi represent one of the major biotic stresses for soybean production across the world. Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, the causal agent of Sclerotinia stem rot, is a devastating fungal pathogen that is responsible for significant yield losses in soybean. In this study, the chitinase gene CmCH1, from the mycoparasitic fungus Coniothyrium minitans, which infects a range of ascomycetous sclerotia, including S. sclerotiorum and S. minor, was introduced into soybean. Transgenic plants expressing CmCH1 showed higher resistance to S. sclerotiorum infection, with significantly reduced lesion sizes in both detached stem and leaf assays, compared to the non-transformed control. Increased hydrogen peroxide content and activities of defense-responsive enzymes, such as peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, phenylalanine ammonia lyase, and polyphenoloxidase were also observed at the infection sites in the transgenic plants inoculated with S. sclerotiorum. Consistent with the role of chitinases in inducing downstream defense responses by the release of elicitors, several defense-related genes, such as GmNPR2, GmSGT-1, GmRAR1, GmPR1, GmPR3, GmPR12, GmPAL, GmAOS, GmPPO, were also significantly upregulated in the CmCH1-expressing soybean after inoculation. Collectively, our results demonstrate that overexpression of CmCH1 led to increased accumulation of H2O2 and up-regulation of defense-related genes and enzymes, and thus enhanced resistance to S. sclerotiorum infection while showing no detrimental effects on growth and development of soybean plants.
Glycinebetaine alleviates chilling stress by protecting photosystems I and II in BADH-transgenic and GB-treated tomato plants, which can be an effective strategy for improving crop chilling tolerance. Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) is one of the most cultivated vegetables in the world, but is highly susceptible to chilling stress and does not naturally accumulate glycinebetaine (GB), one of the most effective stress protectants. The protective mechanisms of GB on photosystem I (PSI) and photosystem II (PSII) against chilling stress, however, remain poorly understood. Here, we address this problem through exogenous GB application and generation of transgenic tomatoes (Moneymaker) with a gene encoding betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH), which is the key enzyme in the synthesis of GB, from spinach. Our results demonstrated that GB can protect chloroplast ultramicrostructure, alleviate PSII photoinhibition and maintain PSII stability under chilling stress. More importantly, GB increased the electron transfer between QA and QB and the redox potential of QB and maintained a high rate of cyclic electron flow around PSI, contributing to reduced production of reactive oxygen species, thereby mitigating PSI photodamage under chilling stress. Our results highlight the novel roles of GB in enhancing chilling tolerance via the protection of PSI and PSII in BADH transgenic and GB-treated tomato plants under chilling stress. Thus, introducing GB-biosynthetic pathway into tomato and exogenous GB application are effective strategies for improving chilling tolerance.
Here we present the development of cowpea lines tolerant to a herbicide from imidazoline class (imazapyr). Plants presented tolerance to fourfold the commercial recommended dose for weed control. Cowpea is one of the most important and widely cultivated legumes in many parts of the world. Its cultivation is drastically affected by weeds, causing damages during growth and development of plants, competing for light, nutrients and water. Consequently, weed control is critical, especially using no-tillage farming systems. In tropical regions, no-till farming is much easier with the use of herbicides to control weeds. This study was conducted to evaluate the possibility of obtaining transgenic cowpea plants resistant to imidazolinone, which would facilitate weed control during the summer season. The biolistic process was used to insert a mutated acetohydroxyacid synthase coding gene (Atahas) which confers tolerance to imazapyr. The transgene integration was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. Out of ten lines tested for tolerance to 100 g ha(-1) imazapyr, eight presented some tolerance. One line (named 59) revealed high herbicide tolerance and developmental growth comparable to non-transgenic plants. This line was further tested for tolerance to higher herbicide concentrations and presented tolerance to 400 g ha(-1) imazapyr (fourfold the commercial recommended dose) with no visible symptoms. Line 59 will be the foundation for generating imidazolinone-tolerant cowpea varieties, which will facilitate cultivation of this crop in large areas.
Transgenic Lilium lines have been generated by Agrobacterium -mediated transformation that have enhanced resistance to Botrytis cinerea as a consequence of ectopic expression of a rice chitinase gene. The production of ornamentals is an important global industry, with Lilium being one of the six major bulb crops in the world. The international trade in ornamentals is in the order of £60-75 billion and is expected to increase worldwide by 2-4% per annum. The continued success of the floriculture industry depends on the introduction of new species/cultivars with major alterations in key agronomic characteristics, such as resistance to pathogens. Fungal diseases are the cause of reduced yields and marketable quality of cultivated plants, including ornamental species. The fungal pathogen Botrytis causes extreme economic losses to a wide range of crop species, including ornamentals such as Lilium. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation was used to develop Lilium oriental cv. 'Star Gazer' plants that ectopically overexpress the Rice Chitinase 10 gene (RCH10), under control of the CaMV35S promoter. Levels of conferred resistance linked to chitinase expression were evaluated by infection with Botrytis cinerea; sporulation was reduced in an in vitro assay and the relative expression of the RCH10 gene was determined by quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR. The extent of resistance to Botrytis, compared to that of the wild type plants, showed a direct correlation with the level of chitinase gene expression. Transgenic plants grown to flowering showed no detrimental phenotypic effects associated with transgene expression. This is the first report of Lilium plants with resistance to Botrytis cinerea generated by a transgenic approach.
Mosquito-borne diseases present some of the greatest health challenges faced by the world today. In many cases, existing control measures are compromised by insecticide resistance, pathogen tolerance to drugs and the lack of effective vaccines. In light of these difficulties, new genetic tools for disease control programmes, based on the deployment of genetically modified mosquitoes, are seen as having great promise. Transgenic strains may be used to control disease transmission either by suppressing vector populations or by replacing susceptible with refractory genotypes. In practice, the fitness of the transgenic strain relative to natural mosquitoes will be a critical determinant of success. We previously described a transgenic strain of Anopheles gambiae expressing the Vida3 peptide into the female midgut following a blood-meal, which exhibited significant protection against malaria parasites. Here, we investigated the fitness of this strain relative to non-transgenic controls through comparisons of various life history traits. Experiments were designed, as far as possible, to equalize genetic backgrounds and heterogeneity such that fitness comparisons focussed on the presence and expression of the transgene cassette. We also employed reciprocal crosses to identify any fitness disturbance associated with inheritance of the transgene from either the male or female parent. We found no evidence that the presence or expression of the effector transgene or associated fluorescence markers caused any significant fitness cost in relation to larval mortality, pupal sex ratio, fecundity, hatch rate or longevity of blood-fed females. In fact, fecundity was increased in transgenic strains. We did, however, observe some fitness disturbances associated with the route of inheritance of the transgene. Maternal inheritance delayed male pupation whilst paternal inheritance increased adult longevity for both males and unfed females. Overall, in comparison to controls, there was no evidence of significant fitness costs associated with the presence or expression of transgenes in this strain.
Transgenic crops producing insecticidal toxins from the bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) have been grown in many parts of the world since 1996. In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has required that industry submit insect resistance management (IRM) plans for each Bt corn and cotton product commercialized. A coalition of stakeholders including the EPA, USDA, academic scientists, industry, and grower organizations have cooperated in developing specific IRM strategies. Resistance monitoring (requiring submission of annual reports to the EPA), and a remedial action plan addressing any contingency if resistance should occur, are important elements of these strategies. At a global level, Monsanto conducts baseline susceptibility studies (prior to commercialization), followed by monitoring studies on target pest populations, for all of its commercialized Bt crop products. To date, Monsanto has conducted baseline/monitoring studies in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, India, Mexico, the Philippines, South Africa, Spain, and the United States. Examples of pests on which resistance monitoring has been conducted include cotton bollworm, Helicoverpa zea, European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis, pink bollworm, Pectinophora gossypiella, Southwestern corn borer, Diatraea grandiosella, tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens, and western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera, in the United States, cotton bollworm, Helicoverpa armigera, in China, India and Australia, and H. virescens and H. zea in Mexico. No field-selected resistance to Bt crops has been documented.
Soil salinity adversely affects the growth and yield of crops, including cucumber, one of the most important vegetables in the world. Grafting with salt-tolerant pumpkin as the rootstock effectively improves the growth of cucumber under different salt conditions by limiting Na⁺ transport from the pumpkin rootstock to the cucumber scion. High-affinity potassium transporters (HKTs) are crucial for the long distance transport of Na⁺ in plants, but the function of pumpkin HKTs in this process of grafted cucumber plants remains unclear. In this work, we have characterized CmHKT1;1 as a member of the HKT gene family in Cucurbita moschata and observed an obvious upregulation of CmHKT1;1 in roots under NaCl stress conditions. Heterologous expression analyses in yeast mutants indicated that CmHKT1;1 is a Na⁺-selective transporter. The transient expression in tobacco epidermal cells and in situ hybridization showed CmHKT1;1 localization at plasma membrane, and preferential expression in root stele. Moreover, ectopic expression of CmHKT1;1 in cucumber decreased the Na⁺ accumulation in the plants shoots. Finally, the CmHKT1;1 transgenic line as the rootstock decreased the Na⁺ content in the wild type shoots. These findings suggest that CmHKT1;1 plays a key role in the salt tolerance of grafted cucumber by limiting Na⁺ transport from the rootstock to the scion and can further be useful for engineering salt tolerance in cucurbit crops.
To determine whether the exogenous expression of glutathione reductase (GR) from Brassica rapa subsp. pekinensis (BrGR) can reduce the deleterious effects of unfavorable conditions, we constructed a transgenic Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain bearing the GR gene cloned into the yeast expression vector, pVTU260. BrGR expression was confirmed by semi reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis, immunoblotting analysis and an enzyme assay. Ectopic BrGR-expression improved cellular glutathione (GSH) homeostasis after higher GSH accumulation in the transgenic yeast than in the wild-type yeast under H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stress. The BrGR-expressing yeast strain induced the activation of metabolic enzymes (Hxt, G6PDH, GAPDH and Ald), antioxidant systems (Gpx, Trx2, Trx3, Trr1, Tsa1 and porin) and molecular chaperones (Hsp104, Hsp90, Hsp70, Hsp42, Hsp26, Grp, Sti1 and Zpr1), which led to lower oxidative protein damage after a reduction in the level of cellular ROS in the BrGR-expressing yeast strain exposed to H(2)O(2) than in the wild-type yeast strain. BrGR-expression increased the ability to adapt and recover from H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stress and various stressors, including heat shock, menadione, tert-butyl hydroperoxide, heavy metals, sodium dodecyl sulfate, ethanol and NaCl, but did not affect fermentation capacity. These results suggest that ectopic BrGR expression confers acquired tolerance by improving proteostasis and redox homeostasis through co-activation of various cell rescue proteins against ROS-induced oxidative stress in yeast cells.
Cotton (Gossypium spp.) is an important economic crop and the largest source of textile fiber in the world. However, to date, only a few genes have been identified that exhibit critical roles in fiber development, and few has shown positive effects on fiber yield and quality in transgenic cotton. Here, we report the characterization of a novel sucrose synthase (SusA1) gene from a superior quality fiber germplasm line 7235 in Gossypium hirsutum. By association analysis, GhSusA1 was highly correlated with fiber qualities in (7235× TM-1) recombinant inbred lines based on polymorphism of GhSusA1 between 7235 and TM-1. Subsequently, based on an interspecific population of 141 BC₁ individuals generated from the cross between TM-1 and Gossypium barbadense line, Hai7124, we further mapped GhSusA1 genes on homeologous chromosomes A8 (chro.8) and D8 (chro.24). Suppression of GhSusA1 in transgenic cotton reduced fiber quality and decreased the boll size and seed weight. Importantly, overexpression of this gene increased fiber length and strength, with the latter indicated by the enhanced thickening of cell wall during secondary wall formation stage. Moreover, increasing GhSusA1 transcript abundance in vegetative tissues led to elevated seedling biomass. Together, these findings identified GhSusA1 as a key regulator of sink strength in cotton, which is tightly associated with productivity, and hence a promising candidate gene that can be developed to increase cotton fiber yield and quality.
Persistent ecotoxicants, such as dioxin and PCBs, are thought to pose one of the greatest threats to public and ecological health in the industrial world. These compounds cause a range of macroscopic malformations, particularly to the craniofacial apparatus and cardiovascular system during vertebrate development. However, little is known about microscopic effects, especially on the sensitive early life stages or on the molecular basis of developmental neurotoxicity. Using zebrafish (Danio rerio), we have explored neurological deficits caused by early-life exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of dioxin. We show, using a quantitative stereological technique, that 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) substantially reduces the capacity for embryonic brain development, causing a 30% reduction in total neuronal number in the 168-h larval brain. Using transgenic GFP-expressing zebrafish lines, we link this to decreased expression of key developmentally regulated genes, namely neurogenin and sonic hedgehog. This disruption of neuronal development provides the basis for understanding the neurotoxic effects of these compounds.
The nutritional enhancement of potato plants (Solanum tuberosum L.,) is highly critical. As it is considered a worldwide basic vegetarian nutrition to maintain health. S. tuberosum is one of the foremost staples and the world's fourth-largest food crop. In advance, its need is increasing because of its high-industrial value and population blast. To improve both potato growth and behavior under harsh environmental conditions, we produced transgenic potato plants overexpressing either VvNHX (a sodium proton antiporter from Vitis vinifera), VvCLC (a chloride channel from Vitis vinifera), or both. Control and transgenic plants were grown in greenhouse and field under non-stressed conditions for 85 days in order to characterize their phenotype and evaluate their agronomical performance. To this aim, the evaluation of plant growth parameters, tuber yields and characteristics (calibers, eye number and color), the chemical composition of tubers, was conducted and compared between the different lines. The obtained results showed that transgenic plants displayed an improved growth (flowering precocity, gain of vigor and better vegetative growth) along with enhanced tuber yields and quality (increased protein and starch contents). Our findings provide then insight into the role played by the VvNHX antiport and the VvCLC channel and a greater understanding of the effect of their overexpression in potato plants.
Assessment of temperature effect on plant resistance against diseases has become essential under climate change scenario as temperature rise is anticipated to modify host resistance. To determine temperature influence on resistance gene, a pair of near-isogenic rice lines differing for the Pi54 resistance gene was assessed against leaf blast. Blast resistance was determined as the extent of infection efficiency (IE) and sporulation (SP) at suboptimal (22 °C and 32 °C) and optimal temperature (27 °C) of pathogen aggressiveness. Relative resistance for IE and SP was higher at suboptimal temperature as compared to that of optimal temperature. Maximum level of resistance was at 22 °C where higher levels of expression of Pi54 and defence-regulatory transcription factor WRKY45 were also noted. At 32 °C, although some level of resistance noted, but level of Pi54 and WRKY45 expression was too low, suggesting that resistance recorded at higher temperature was due to reduced pathogen aggressiveness. At the optimal temperature for pathogen aggressiveness, comparatively lower levels of Pi54 and WRKY45 expression suggest possible temperature-induced interruption of the defence processes. The variation in resistance patterns modulated by temperature is appeared to be due to pathogen's sensitivity to temperature that leads to varying levels of Pi54 gene activation. Quick and violent activity of the pathogen at optimal temperature came into sight for the interruption of defence process activated by Pi54 gene. Evaluation of blast resistance genes under variable temperature conditions together with weather data could be applied in screening rice genotypes for selection of resistance having resilience to temperature rise.
Background:                       There are almost no prospective, controlled and randomized clinical trials comparing different approaches towards hepatic assist. In order to create a basis for comparing the value of the existing different hepatic assist methods this article offers a systematic review of the world experience with allogeneic or xenogeneic extracorporeal liver perfusion (ECLP).                  Methods:                       An Internet-assisted search was conducted in the international literature published from 1964 to 2000. Only articles with a clear description of methodology and outcome of patients were included. For multivariate analysis of variance the general linear method (GLM) procedure was used. Differences within the groups were analyzed by chi-square test. Data of 198 patients were included into the statistical analysis for systematic review.                  Results:                       The long-term survival rate (SVR) of these patients was 26%, thus not exceeding published data concerning SVR under standard intensive care. Age below 40 years (P<0.029), coma stage lower than III-IV (P<0.003), total perfusion time over 10 hours (P<0.024), hepatitis B as cause for acute liver failure (ALF) (P<0.05) as well as use of baboon and human livers (P<0.02) were identified as independent positive prognostic markers for improved survival. ECLP as bridging therapy to liver transplantation was successful in 12 of 14 patients.                  Conclusion:                       ECLP using pig livers did not surpass the success of conventional intensive care treatment. An additional effect of transgenic expression of human regulators of complement regulation in porcine livers has not yet been proven. ECLP with human livers not suitable for liver transplantation might prove effective and practicable for temporary hepatic support. Bridging to liver transplantation by long-term ECLP using porcine and human livers appears to have comparable efficacy as bioartificial support methods.
Rice is the staple diet of over half of the world's population and Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) rice expressing insecticidal Cry proteins is ready for deployment. An assessment of the potential impact of Bt rice on the soil ecosystem under varied field management practices is urgently required. We used litter bags to assess the residue (leaves, stems and roots) decomposition dynamics of two transgenic rice lines (Kefeng6 and Kefeng8) containing stacked genes from Bt and sck (a modified CpTI gene encoding a cowpea trypsin inhibitor) (Bt/CpTI), a non-transgenic rice near-isoline (Minghui86), wild rice (Oryza rufipogon) and crop-wild Bt rice hybrid under contrasting conditions (drainage or continuous flooding) in the field. No significant difference was detected in the remaining mass, total C and total N among cultivars under aerobic conditions, whereas significant differences in the remaining mass and total C were detected between Kefeng6 and Kefeng8 and Minghui86 under the flooded condition. A higher decomposition rate constant (km) was measured under the flooded condition compared with the aerobic condition for leaf residues, whereas the reverse was observed for root residues. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), which was used to monitor the changes in the Cry1Ac protein in Bt rice residues, indicated that (1) the degradation of the Cry1Ac protein under both conditions best fit first-order kinetics, and the predicted DT50 (50% degradation time) of the Cry1Ac protein ranged from 3.6 to 32.5 days; (2) the Cry1Ac protein in the residue degraded relatively faster under aerobic conditions; and (3) by the end of the study (~154 days), the protein was present at a low concentration in the remaining residues under both conditions. The degradation rate constant was negatively correlated with the initial carbon content and positively correlated with the initial Cry1Ac protein concentration, but it was only correlated with the mass decomposition rate constants under the flooded condition. No Cry1Ac protein was detected in the soils surrounding the buried residue. Our results did not reveal any evidence that the stacked genes (Bt/CpTI) or the presence of the Cry1Ac protein influenced the decomposition dynamics of the rice residues. Furthermore, our results suggested that field drainage after residue incorporation would promote Cry1Ac protein degradation.
Background:                       Polished rice is a staple food for over 50% of the world's population, but contains little bioavailable iron (Fe) to meet human needs. Thus, biofortifying the rice grain with novel promoters or enhancers of Fe utilization would be one of the most effective strategies to prevent the high prevalence of Fe deficiency and iron deficiency anemia in the developing world.                  Methodology/principal findings:                       We transformed an elite rice line cultivated in Southern China with the rice nicotianamine synthase gene (OsNAS1) fused to a rice glutelin promoter. Endosperm overexpression of OsNAS1 resulted in a significant increase in nicotianamine (NA) concentrations in both unpolished and polished grain. Bioavailability of Fe from the high NA grain, as measured by ferritin synthesis in an in vitro Caco-2 cell model that simulates the human digestive system, was twice as much as that of the control line. When added at 1:1 molar ratio to ferrous Fe in the cell system, NA was twice as effective when compared to ascorbic acid (one of the most potent known enhancers of Fe bioavailability) in promoting more ferritin synthesis.                  Conclusions:                       Our data demonstrated that NA is a novel and effective promoter of iron utilization. Biofortifying polished rice with this compound has great potential in combating global human iron deficiency in people dependent on rice for their sustenance.
A new approach to genetic improvement of trees has been introduced with the birth of gene engineering technique. Compared to that in crops, gene introduction in trees has bigger potential ecological risk in environmental release and extension, because trees, most of which are wind-dispersed, grow on various habitats, have longer life span, and subject to relatively more extensive management. Extensive plantation of transgenic trees may reduce the genetic diversity of the trees concerned. Co-evolution of pests and pathogens is likely to be caused under the pressure of long-term and continuous selection of the trees derived from gene transferring. Escaping of exogenous gene may have a certain kind of influence on fitness of plants naturally generated, and as a result, have influence on species diversity in the natural world. It is not reasonable for China, a developing country, to reject gene introduction as an approach to promote forestry development. It is also important, on the other hand, to take future ecological safety into consideration because it is unwise to get present profit at the cost of future profit. To strengthen basic study on gene transferring, adopting safe management of varieties generated from gene transferring and increasing funds on research and management of transgenic trees are believed to be measures to decrease, to the greatest extent, ecological risks brought about by gene transferring of trees, and to quicken transformation of products of trees derived from gene-transferring into merchandises.
The sustainability of global crop production is critically dependent on improving tolerance of crop plants to various types of environmental stress. Thus, identification of genes that confer stress tolerance in crops has become a top priority especially in view of expected changes in global climatic patterns. Drought stress is one of the abiotic stresses that can result in dramatic loss of crop productivity. In this work, we show that transgenic expression of a highly conserved cell death suppressor, Bax Inhibitor-1 from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtBI-1), can confer increased tolerance of sugarcane plants to long-term (>20 days) water stress conditions. This robust trait is correlated with an increased tolerance of the transgenic sugarcane plants, especially in the roots, to induction of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress by the protein glycosylation inhibitor tunicamycin. Our findings suggest that suppression of ER stress in C4 grasses, which include important crops such as sorghum and maize, can be an effective means of conferring improved tolerance to long-term water deficit. This result could potentially lead to improved resilience and yield of major crops in the world.
Beet cyst nematode (Heterodera schachtii Schm.) is one of the most damaging pests in sugar beet growing areas around the world. The Hs1pro-1 and cZR3 genes confer resistance to the beet cyst nematode, and both were cloned from sugar beet translocation line (A906001). The translocation line carried the locus from B. procumbens chromosome 1 including Hs1pro-1 gene and resistance gene analogs (RGA), which confer resistance to Heterodera schachtii. In this research, BvHs1pro-1 and BvcZR3 genes were transferred into oilseed rape to obtain different transgenic lines by A. tumefaciens mediated transformation method. The cZR3Hs1pro-1 gene was pyramided into the same plants by crossing homozygous cZR3 and Hs1pro-1 plants to identify the function and interaction of cZR3 and Hs1pro-1 genes. In vitro and in vivo cyst nematode resistance tests showed that cZR3 and Hs1pro-1 plants could be infested by beet cyst nematode (BCN) juveniles, however a large fraction of penetrated nematode juveniles was not able to develop normally and stagnated in roots of transgenic plants, consequently resulting in a significant reduction in the number of developed nematode females. A higher efficiency in inhibition of nematode females was observed in plants expressing pyramiding genes than in those only expressing a single gene. Molecular analysis demonstrated that BvHs1pro-1 and BvcZR3 gene expressions in oilseed rape constitutively activated transcription of plant-defense related genes such as NPR1 (non-expresser of PR1), SGT1b (enhanced disease resistance 1) and RAR1 (suppressor of the G2 allele of skp1). Transcript of NPR1 gene in transgenic cZR3 and Hs1pro-1 plants were slightly up-regulated, while its expression was considerably enhanced in cZR3Hs1pro-1 gene pyramiding plants. The expression of EDS1 gene did not change significantly among transgenic cZR3, Hs1pro-1 and cZR3Hs1pro-1 gene pyramiding plants and wild type. The expression of SGT1b gene was slightly up-regulated in transgenic cZR3 and Hs1pro-1 plants compared with the wild type, however, its expression was not changed in cZR3Hs1pro-1 gene pyramiding plant and had no interaction effect. RAR1 gene expression was significantly up-regulated in transgenic cZR3 and cZR3Hs1pro-1 genes pyramiding plants, but almost no expression was found in Hs1pro-1 transgenic plants. These results show that nematode resistance genes from sugar beet were functional in oilseed rape and conferred BCN resistance by activation of a CC-NBS-LRR R gene mediated resistance response. The gene pyramiding had enhanced resistance, thus offering a novel approach for the BCN control by preventing the propagation of BCN in oilseed rape. The transgenic oilseed rape could be used as a trap crop to offer an alternative method for beet cyst nematode control.
Quantification of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in food and feed products is often required for their labelling or for tolerance thresholds. Standard-curve-based simplex quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) is the prevailing technology, which is often combined with screening analysis. With the rapidly growing number of GMOs on the world market, qPCR analysis becomes laborious and expensive. Innovative cost-effective approaches are therefore urgently needed. Here, we report the development and inter-laboratory assessment of multiplex assays to quantify GMO soybean using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). The assays were developed to facilitate testing of foods and feed for compliance with current GMO regulations in the European Union (EU). Within the EU, the threshold for labelling is 0.9% for authorised GMOs per ingredient. Furthermore, the EU has set a technical zero tolerance limit of 0.1% for certain unauthorised GMOs. The novel multiplex ddPCR assays developed target 11 GMO soybean lines that are currently authorised, and four that are tolerated, pending authorisation in the EU. Potential significant improvements in cost efficiency are demonstrated. Performance was assessed for the critical parameters, including limits of detection and quantification, and trueness, repeatability, and robustness. Inter-laboratory performance was also determined on a number of proficiency programme and real-life samples.
Brassica rapa grows as a wild and weedy species throughout the world and is the most likely recipient of transgenes from GM oilseed rape. For transgene introgression to occur, the critical step which must be realized, is the formation of an F1 hybrid. Concerns exist that hybrid populations could be more vigorous and competitive compared to the parental species. This study examines the effect of simulated herbivory and interspecific competition on the vegetative and reproductive performance of non-transgenic F1 hybrids and their parental lines. Several vegetative and reproductive performance measures were used to determine the effect of simulated herbivory and competition on the Brassica lines, including leaf length and biomass for herbivory and seedling height and biomass for competition. For defoliation experiments, B. rapa showed little response in terms of leaf length but B. napus and the F1 hybrid responded negatively. Brassica rapa showed elevated biomass responses, but B. napus and the hybrid demonstrated negative responses to defoliation. Defoliation at the cotyledon stage had a slight effect upon final biomass with the F1 hybrid performing significantly worse than B. napus, although seed counts were not significantly different. For the series of competition experiments, hybrids seemed to be more similar to B. rapa in terms of early seedling growth and reproductive measures. The underperformance of hybrid plants when challenged by herbivory and competition, could potentially decrease survivorship and explain the rarity of hybrids in field surveys. However, should transgene introgression occur, the dynamics of hybrids could change radically thus increasing the risk of gene flow from a transgenic oilseed rape crop to the wild recipient.
Boron (B) toxicity to plants is responsible for low crop productivity in many regions of the world. Here we report a novel and effective means to alleviate the B toxicity to plants under high B circumstance. Functional characterization of AtTIP5;1, an aquaporin gene, revealed that overexpression of AtTIP5;1 (OxAtTIP5;1) in Arabidopsis significantly increased its tolerance to high B toxicity. Compared to wild-type plants, OxAtTIP5;1 plants exhibited longer hypocotyls, accelerated development, increased silique production under high B treatments. GUS staining and quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) results demonstrated that the expression of AtTIP5;1 was induced by high B concentration treatment. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that the AtTIP5;1-GFP fusion protein was localized on the tonoplast membrane, which was consistent with the prediction based on bioinformatics. Taken together, our results suggest that AtTIP5;1 is involved in B transport pathway possibly via vacuolar compartmentation for B, and that overexpression of AtTIP5;1 in plants may provide an effective way to overcome the problem resulting from high B concentration toxicity.
In recent decades, laboratories throughout the world generated several thousand mutant, transgenic, and wild-type zebrafish lines and more lines continue to be produced. At the same time, relatively little effort has been expended to develop reliable, high-throughput, standardized, long-term cryopreservation storage methods, even though laboratories and the research community as a whole struggle to maintain the large number of lines alive. Safe and reliable methods for maintaining these valuable genetic resources are vital for future biomedical research.Cryopreservation is the most efficient method for large-scale, long-term storage of important genetic materials. It extends the time offspring can be produced from individual fish, reduces the need to maintain live populations, and can prevent catastrophic loss of irreplaceable research lines. Cryopreservation is also the most cost-effective alternative for maintaining genetic resources because it reduces costs for animal and facility maintenance, personnel, and space. In addition, it provides novel opportunities to develop new types of research using large numbers of lines. For example, several genetic strategies, such as TILLING-or enhancer and gene trapping-depend on the use of cryopreservation to bypass generations of live organisms until a strain is revived for research.This chapter describes and discusses the current cryopreservation method used at the Zebrafish International Resource Center. This method is derived from the initial protocol developed for zebrafish over 20 years ago that has recently been refined.
The Q gene is largely responsible for the widespread cultivation of wheat because it confers the free-threshing character. It also pleiotropically influences many other domestication-related traits such as glume shape and tenacity, rachis fragility, spike length, plant height, and spike emergence time. We isolated the Q gene and verified its identity by analysis of knockout mutants and transformation. The Q gene has a high degree of similarity to members of the AP2 family of transcription factors. The Q allele is more abundantly transcribed than q, and the two alleles differ for a single amino acid. An isoleucine at position 329 in the Q protein leads to an abundance of homodimer formation in yeast cells, whereas a valine in the q protein appears to limit homodimer formation. Ectopic expression analysis allowed us to observe both silencing and overexpression effects of Q. Rachis fragility, glume shape, and glume tenacity mimicked the q phenotype in transgenic plants exhibiting post-transcriptional silencing of the transgene and the endogenous Q gene. Variation in spike compactness and plant height were associated with the level of transgene transcription due to the dosage effects of Q. The q allele is the more primitive, and the mutation that gave rise to Q occurred only once leading to the world's cultivated wheats.
Fungi in the genus Cercospora cause crop losses world-wide on many crop species. The wide host range and success of these pathogens has been attributed to the production of a photoactivated toxin, cercosporin. We engineered tobacco for resistance to Cercospora nicotianae utilizing two strategies: 1) transformation with cercosporin autoresistance genes isolated from the fungus, and 2) transformation with constructs to silence the production of cercosporin during disease development. Three C. nicotianae cercosporin autoresistance genes were tested: ATR1 and CFP, encoding an ABC and an MFS transporter, respectively, and 71cR, which encodes a hypothetical protein. Resistance to the pathogen was identified in transgenic lines expressing ATR1 and 71cR, but not in lines transformed with CFP. Silencing of the CTB1 polyketide synthase and to a lesser extent the CTB8 pathway regulator in the cercosporin biosynthetic pathway also led to the recovery of resistant lines. All lines tested expressed the transgenes, and a direct correlation between the level of transgene expression and disease resistance was not identified in any line. Resistance was also not correlated with the degree of silencing in the CTB1 and CTB8 silenced lines. We conclude that expression of fungal cercosporin autoresistance genes as well as silencing of the cercosporin pathway are both effective strategies for engineering resistance to Cercospora diseases where cercosporin plays a critical role.
Nearly half of the world's population obtains its daily calories from rice grains, which lack or have insufficient levels of essential micronutrients. The deficiency of micronutrients vital for normal growth is a global health problem, and iron, zinc and vitamin A deficiencies are the most prevalent ones. We developed rice lines expressing Arabidopsis NICOTIANAMINE SYNTHASE 1 (AtNAS1), bean FERRITIN (PvFERRITIN), bacterial CAROTENE DESATURASE (CRTI) and maize PHYTOENE SYNTHASE (ZmPSY) in a single genetic locus in order to increase iron, zinc and β-carotene content in the rice endosperm. NAS catalyzes the synthesis of nicotianamine (NA), which is a precursor of deoxymugeneic acid (DMA) iron and zinc chelators, and also chelate iron and zinc for long distance transport. FERRITIN provides efficient storage of up to 4500 iron ions. PSY catalyzes the conversion of GGDP to phytoene, and CRTI performs the function of desaturases required for the synthesis of β-carotene from phytoene. All transgenic rice lines have significantly increased β-carotene, iron, and zinc content in the polished rice grains. Our results establish a proof-of-concept for multi-nutrient enrichment of rice grains from a single genetic locus, thus offering a sustainable and effective approach to address different micronutrient deficiencies at once.
Lysine (Lys) is the first limiting essential amino acid in rice, a stable food for half of the world population. Efforts, including genetic engineering, have not achieved a desirable level of Lys in rice. Here, we genetically engineered rice to increase Lys levels by expressing bacterial lysine feedback-insensitive aspartate kinase (AK) and dihydrodipicolinate synthase (DHPS) to enhance Lys biosynthesis; through RNA interference of rice lysine ketoglutaric acid reductase/saccharopine dehydropine dehydrogenase (LKR/SDH) to down-regulate its catabolism; and by combined expression of AK and DHPS and interference of LKR/SDH to achieve both metabolic effects. In these transgenic plants, free Lys levels increased up to ~12-fold in leaves and ~60-fold in seeds, substantially greater than the 2.5-fold increase in transgenic rice seeds reported by the only previous related study. To better understand the metabolic regulation of Lys accumulation in rice, metabolomic methods were employed to analyse the changes in metabolites of the Lys biosynthesis and catabolism pathways in leaves and seeds at different stages. Free Lys accumulation was mainly regulated by its biosynthesis in leaves and to a greater extent by catabolism in seeds. The transgenic plants did not show observable changes in plant growth and seed germination nor large changes in levels of asparagine (Asn) and glutamine (Gln) in leaves, which are the major amino acids transported into seeds. Although Lys was highly accumulated in leaves of certain transgenic lines, a corresponding higher Lys accumulation was not observed in seeds, suggesting that free Lys transport from leaves into seeds did not occur.
Chronic bacterial infections in the oral cavity influence the development of dental caries. Mutans streptococci are the major pathogenic cause of dental caries. The World Health Organization (WHO) ranks dental caries, cancer, and cardiovascular diseases as the three major global diseases that need urgent preventative and curative measures. However, substantial evidence suggests that traditional prevention and treatment strategies are inefficient in reducing the prevalence of dental caries. For protection against caries, it is important to develop effective vaccines that induce anticolonizing immunity against Streptococcus mutans infections. In the present investigation, we constructed a fusion anti-caries DNA vaccine (PAcA-ctxB) through fusing A region of cell surface protein PAc (PAcA) coding gene of mutans streptococci with cholera toxin B subunit coding gene (CTB). Afterward, the plasmids were integrated into tomato genomes through agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation technology. The presence of transgenes in the tomato genome was confirmed by PCR, β-glucuronidase gene (GUS), and western blot. The expression of genes was confirmed at transcription and protein level. Altogether, the results presented herein showed that transgenic tomatoes may provide a useful system for the production of human caries antigen.
The production of vegetable oil in many countries of the world, including India has not been able to keep pace with the increasing requirement, leading to a very large gap in the demand-supply chain. Thus, there is an urgent need to increase the yield potential of the oilseed crops so as to enhance the storage lipid productivity. The present study describes a novel metabolic engineering ploy involving the constitutive down-regulation of endogenous ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (BjAGPase) enzyme and the seed-specific expression of WRINKLED1 transcription factor (AtWRI1) from Arabidopsis thaliana in Indian mustard (Brassica juncea) with an aim to divert the photosynthetically fixed carbon pool from starch to lipid synthesis in the seeds for the enhanced production of storage lipids in the seeds of transgenic mustard plants. The starch content, in both the vegetative leaf and developing seed tissues of the transgenic B. juncea lines exhibited a reduction by about 45-53% compared to the untransformed control, whereas the soluble sugar content was increased by 2.4 and 1.3-fold in the leaf and developing seed tissues, respectively. Consequently, the transgenic lines showed a significant enhancement in total seed lipid content ranging between 7.5 and 16.9%. The results indicate that the adopted metabolic engineering strategy was successful in significantly increasing the seed oil content. Therefore, findings of our research suggest that the metabolic engineering strategy adopted in this study for shifting the anabolic carbon flux from starch synthesis to lipid biosynthesis can be employed for increasing the storage lipid content of seeds in other plant species.
For the current generation of genetically modified (GM) crops the improvement of agronomic traits (e.g. herbicide tolerance, insect resistance) has been a major objective. The lack of obvious and direct benefits for the consumer has been a main point of criticism. Future trends will increasingly encompass the modification of quality traits, such as the improvement of sensory and especially nutritional properties. Some of the ongoing developments try to meet the desire of consumers for 'healthy' or 'high-tech' foods in developed countries. Others are intended to assist in adjusting the nutritional status of foods to the needs of consumers in developing countries. Considering the increasing world population and the limited amount of arable land, GM technology may also become a valuable tool to ensure food security. The major prerequisite for the applicability of the technique is the safety of the resulting products. The increasing complexity of modifications intended might require adjustments and improvements of the strategies applied to the safety assessment of GM foods. Present research activities try to meet these new challenges.
Background:                       The antibiotic resistance of pathogenic microorganisms is a worldwide problem. Each year several million people across the world acquire infections with bacteria that are antibiotic-resistant, which is costly in terms of human health. New antibiotics are extremely needed to overcome the current resistance problem.                  Results:                       Transgenic flax plants overproducing compounds from phenylpropanoid pathway accumulate phenolic derivatives of potential antioxidative, and thus, antimicrobial activity. Alkali hydrolyzed seedcake extract containing coumaric acid, ferulic acid, caffeic acid, and lignan in high quantities was used as an assayed against pathogenic bacteria (commonly used model organisms and clinical strains). It was shown that the extract components had antibacterial activity, which might be useful as a prophylactic against bacterial infection. Bacteria topoisomerase II (gyrase) inhibition and genomic DNA disintegration are suggested to be the main reason for rendering antibacterial action.                  Conclusions:                       The data obtained strongly suggest that the seedcake extract preparation is a suitable candidate for antimicrobial action with a broad spectrum and partial selectivity. Such preparation can be applied in cases where there is a risk of multibacterial infection and excellent answer on global increase in multidrug resistance in pathogenic bacteria.
Cry8Ea1 from Bacillus thuringiensis strain Bt185 has insecticidal activity against Holotrichia parallela. Cry8Ca2 from strain HBF-1 is effective against Anomala corpulenta. Cry8Ga1 from strain HBF-18 is toxic to H. oblita. Given the need to broaden the spectrum of B. thuringiensis, a broad-spectrum coleopteran active strain of B. thuringiensis, BIOT185, engineered to express multiple cry genes, including cry8Ea1, cry8Fa1 and cry8Ca2, was created by homologous recombination introducing the cry8Ca2 into the B. thuringiensis strain Bt185 by Liu et al. (Appl Microbiol Biotechnol 87:243-249, 2010). To further broaden the spectrum, an engineered B. thuringiensis strain BIOT1858G was constructed by introducing the recombinant plasmid pSTK-8G containing cry8Ga1 into the engineered B. thuringiensis strain BIOT185. PCR and Southern blotting demonstrated that the cry8Ga1 gene was transferred to the novel strain BIOT1858G. SDS-PAGE and RT-PCR confirmed the normal expression and transcription of the cry8Ga1 gene in addition to the cry8Ea1, cry8Fa1 and cry8Ca2 genes. Bioassays of BIOT1858G indicated that the recombinant strain broadened the spectrum against not only H. parallela susceptible to the Cry8E protein and A. corpulenta susceptible to the Cry8C protein but also H. oblita susceptible to the Cry8G protein. The pesticide could also decrease the cost of production and field labor.
Salinity is a major abiotic stress which affects crop plants around the world, resulting in substantial loss of yield and millions of dollars of lost revenue. High levels of Na(+) in shoot tissue have many adverse effects and, crucially, yield in cereals is commonly inversely proportional to the extent of shoot Na(+) accumulation. We therefore need to identify genes, resistant plant cultivars and cellular processes that are involved in salinity tolerance, with the goal of introducing these factors into commercially available crops. Through the use of an Arabidopsis thaliana mapping population, we have identified a highly significant quantitative trait locus (QTL) linked to Na(+) exclusion. Fine mapping of this QTL identified a protein kinase (AtCIPK16), related to AtSOS2, that was significantly up-regulated under salt stress. Greater Na(+) exclusion was associated with significantly higher root expression of AtCIPK16, which is due to differences in the gene's promoter. Constitutive overexpression of the gene in Arabidopsis leads to plants with significant reduction in shoot Na(+) and greater salinity tolerance. amiRNA knock-downs of AtCIPK16 in Arabidopsis show a negative correlation between the expression levels of the gene and the amount of shoot Na(+) . Transgenic barley lines overexpressing AtCIPK16 show increased salinity tolerance.
Vitamin deficiency affects up to 50% of the world's population, disproportionately impacting on developing countries where populations endure monotonous, cereal-rich diets. Transgenic plants offer an effective way to increase the vitamin content of staple crops, but thus far it has only been possible to enhance individual vitamins. We created elite inbred South African transgenic corn plants in which the levels of 3 vitamins were increased specifically in the endosperm through the simultaneous modification of 3 separate metabolic pathways. The transgenic kernels contained 169-fold the normal amount of beta-carotene, 6-fold the normal amount of ascorbate, and double the normal amount of folate. Levels of engineered vitamins remained stable at least through to the T3 homozygous generation. This achievement, which vastly exceeds any realized thus far by conventional breeding alone, opens the way for the development of nutritionally complete cereals to benefit the world's poorest people.
Increasing crop productivity in an ever-changing environmental scenario is a major challenge for maintaining the food supply worldwide. Generation of crops having broad-spectrum pathogen resistance with the ability to cope with water scarcity is the only solution to feed the expanding world population. Stomatal closure has implications on pathogen colonization and drought tolerance. Recent studies have provided novel insights into networks involved in stomatal closure which is being used in biotechnological applications for improving crop endurance. Despite that genetic engineering of stomata requires guard cell preferred or specific regulatory regions to avoid undesirable side effects. In the present study, we describe the 5'-upstream regulatory region of the WRKY18 transcription factor of banana and functionally analyzed its stress meditated activation and strong guard cell preferred activity. Expression of MusaWRKY18 is augmented in leaves of banana cultivars Karibale Monthan, Rasthali and Grand Nain under multiple stress conditions suggesting its role in stress responses of banana plants. Transgenic tobacco lines harboring PMusaWRKY18 -β-D-glucuronidase (GUS) were regenerated and GUS staining demonstrated substantial GUS expression in guard cells which corroborates with multiple Dof1 binding cis-elements in PMusaWRKY18 . Fluorescent β-galactosidase assay demonstrated the stress-mediated strong induction profiles of PMusaWRKY18 at different time points in transgenic tobacco lines exposed to drought, high-salinity, cold, and applications of abscisic acid, salicylic acid, methyl jasmonate, and ethephon. This study sheds novel insights into guard cell preferred expression of WRKY genes under stress and confirm the utility of PMusaWRKY18 for exploring guard cell functions and guard cell engineering.
Reduced crop productivity due to soils containing toxic levels of boron (B) is a worldwide problem in food production. It is estimated that up to 17% of the barley yield losses in southern Australia are caused by B toxicity. We found that the expression of AtBOR4, an Arabidopsis paralog of BOR1, the first identified boron transporter gene, generates plants that are tolerant of high B levels. BOR4 is a polarly localized borate exporter that enhances B efflux from roots. The present study is a foundation for the improvement of crop productivity in soils containing excess B, which are distributed in arid areas of the world.
Gene flow is one of the major concerns associated with the release of transgenic plants into the environment. Unrestricted gene flow can results in super weeds, reduction in species fitness and genetic diversity, and contamination of traditional plants and foods. Thus, it is important and also necessary to evaluate the extent of gene flow in the field for transgenic plants already released or being considered for a release. Transgenic cotton is among the first transgenic crops for commercialization, which are widely cultivated around the world. In this chapter, we use transgenic insect resistant cotton and herbicide-tolerant cotton as two examples to present a field practice method for determining transgene flow in cotton. The procedure includes three major sections: (1) field design, (2) seed collection, and (3) field and lab bioassay.
Concerns have been raised about the potential effects of transgenic introductions on the genetic diversity of crop landraces and wild relatives in areas of crop origin and diversification, as this diversity is considered essential for global food security. Direct effects on non-target species, and the possibility of unintentionally transferring traits of ecological relevance onto landraces and wild relatives have also been sources of concern. The degree of genetic connectivity between industrial crops and their progenitors in landraces and wild relatives is a principal determinant of the evolutionary history of crops and agroecosystems throughout the world. Recent introductions of transgenic DNA constructs into agricultural fields provide unique markers to measure such connectivity. For these reasons, the detection of transgenic DNA in crop landraces is of critical importance. Here we report the presence of introgressed transgenic DNA constructs in native maize landraces grown in remote mountains in Oaxaca, Mexico, part of the Mesoamerican centre of origin and diversification of this crop.
Overexpression of finger millet calmodulin imparts drought and salt tolerance in plants. Drought and salinity are major environmental stresses which affect crop productivity and therefore are major hindrance in feeding growing population world-wide. Calcium (Ca2+) signaling plays a crucial role during the plant's response to these stress stimuli. Calmodulin (CaM), a crucial Ca2+sensor, is involved in transducing the signal downstream in various physiological, developmental and stress responses by modulating a plethora of target proteins. The role of CaM has been well established in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana for regulating various developmental processes, stress signaling and ion transport. In the current study, we investigate the CaM of Eleusine coracana (common name finger millet, known especially for its drought tolerance and superior Ca2+ content). In-silico analysis showed that Eleusine CaM (EcCaM) has greater similarity to rice CaM as compared to Arabidopsis CaM due to the presence of highly conserved four EF-hand domains. To decipher the in-planta function of EcCaM, we have adopted the gain-of-function approach by generating the 35S::EcCaM over-expression transgenic in Arabidopsis. Overexpression of EcCaM in Arabidopsis makes the plant tolerant to polyethylene glycol (PEG) induced drought and salt stress (NaCl) as demonstrated by post-germination based phenotypic assay, ion leakage, MDA and proline estimation, ROS detection under stressed and normal conditions. Moreover, EcCaM overexpression leads to hypersensitivity toward exogenously applied ABA at the seed germination stage. These findings reveal that EcCaM mediates tolerance to drought and salinity stress. Also, our results indicate that EcCaM is involved in modulating ABA signaling. Summarizing our results, we report for the first time that EcCaM is involved in modulating plants response to stress and this information can be used for the generation of future-ready crops that can tolerate a wide range of abiotic stresses.
In 2009, a novel H1N1 swine influenza virus was isolated from infected humans in Mexico and the United States, and rapidly spread around the world. Another virus, a highly pathogenic avian influenza virus of the H5N1 subtype, identified by the World Health Organization as a potential pandemic threat in 1997, continues to be a significant risk. While vaccination is the preferred strategy for the prevention and control of influenza infections, the traditional egg-based approach to producing influenza vaccines does not provide sufficient capacity and adequate speed to satisfy global needs to combat newly emerging strains, seasonal or potentially pandemic. Significant efforts are underway to develop and implement new cell substrates with improved efficiency for influenza vaccine development and manufacturing. In recent years, plants have been used to produce recombinant proteins including subunit vaccines and antibodies. The main advantages of using plant systems for the production of vaccine antigens against influenza are their independence from pathogenic viruses, and cost and time efficiency. Here, we describe the large-scale production of recombinant hemagglutinin proteins from A/California/04/09 (H1N1) and A/Indonesia/05/05 (H5N1) strains of influenza virus in Nicotiana benthamiana plants, and their immunogenicity (serum hemagglutination inhibition and virus neutralizing antibodies), and safety in animal models. These results support the testing of these candidate vaccines in human volunteers and also the utility of our plant expression system for large-scale recombinant influenza vaccine production.
The diversity of endophytic microorganisms may change due to the genotype of the host plant and its phenological stage. In this study we evaluated the effect of phenological stage, transgenes and genetic composition of maize on endophytic bacterial and fungal communities. The maize populations were composed of a local variety named Rosado (RS) and three isogenic hybrids. One isogenic hybrid was not genetically modified (NGM). Another hybrid (Hx) contained the transgenes cry1F and pat (T1507 event), which provide resistance to insects of the order Lepidoptera and tolerance to the glufosinate-ammonium herbicide, respectively. The third hybrid (Hxrr) contained the transgene cp4 epsps (NK603 event) combined with the transgenes cry1F and pat (T1507 event), which allow tolerance to the Roundup Ready herbicide, besides the characteristics of Hx. Evaluation of the foliar tissue was done through PCR-DGGE analysis, with specific primers for bacteria and fungi within four phenological stages of maize. The endophytic bacteria were only clustered by phenological stages; the structure of the fungal community was clustered by maize genotypes in each phenological stage. The fungal community from the local variety RS was different from the three hybrids (NGM, Hx and Hxrr) within the four evaluated stages. In the reproductive stage, the fungal community from the two transgenic hybrids (Hx and Hxrr) were separated, and the Hxrr was different from NGM, in the two field experiments. This research study showed that the genetic composition of the maize populations, especially the presence of transgenes, is the determining factor for the changes detected in the endophytic fungal community of maize leaves.
Paraquat is one of the most widely used herbicides in the world. However, no paraquat transporter has been isolated in plants. Here, we describe paraquat-tolerant mutant pqt24-1, isolated from an activation-tagging library on the basis of its tolerance to 2 μm paraquat in the seedling stage. Molecular analysis revealed that the T-DNA was inserted in the 13th exon of At1g66950, which encodes AtPDR11, a member of the ATP-binding cassette transporter superfamily. As a result, AtPDR11 was knocked out in the mutant. Loss-of-function mutations of AtPDR11 led to reduced paraquat accumulation in plant cells. In addition, the AtPDR11 protein was specifically localized in the plasmalemma, suggesting AtPDR11 as a potential transporter of paraquat. This conclusion was supported by kinetic analysis of paraquat import. Further studies showed that the transcript level of AtPDR11 could be strongly induced by paraquat and other abiotic stresses including H(2) O(2) , indicating possible up-regulation of AtPDR11 expression by oxidative stress signaling. Thus, our data suggest that paraquat is an opportunistic substrate of AtPDR11 and the enhanced paraquat tolerance of pqt24-1 is due to reduced uptake of paraquat into plant cells.
Transgenic maize expressing the insecticidal protein Vip3Aa20 is increasingly being adopted in Brazil. In this study, we determined the baseline susceptibility of Helicoverpa armigera (Hübner) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) and Helicoverpa zea (Boddie) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) to Vip3Aa20, as part of an Insect Resistance Management (IRM) program. Diet-overlay bioassays were conducted with neonates exposed to Vip3Aa20 for 7 d. The baseline susceptibility data were obtained for seven field populations of H. armigera and six of H. zea collected from major soybean-, cotton-, and maize-producing areas in Brazil. To validate the diagnostic concentration, 11 field populations of H. zea were tested from 2014 to 2015. The LC50 for H. armigera populations ranged from 2.97 to 8.41 µg Vip3Aa20/cm2 (threefold variation), and for H. zea populations from 0.04 to 0.21 µg Vip3Aa20/cm2 (fivefold variation). The EC50 for H. armigera ranged from 0.099 to 0.455 µg Vip3Aa20/cm2 (fivefold variation), and for H. zea from 0.004 to 0.020 µg Vip3Aa20/cm2 (fivefold variation). H. armigera was more tolerant to Vip3Aa20 protein than was H. zea (≈40- to 75-fold, based on LC50). Based on the LC99 value, the concentration of 6.4 µg Vip3Aa20/cm2 was defined as a diagnostic concentration for susceptibility monitoring in H. zea, and >44 µg Vip3Aa20/cm2 for H. armigera. Our baseline susceptibility data for Vip3Aa20 in H. armigera and H. zea populations will be useful in IRM programs in Brazil.
Rice, a staple food for more than half of the world population, is an important target for iron and zinc biofortification. Current strategies mainly focus on the expression of genes for efficient uptake, long-distance transport and storage. Targeting intracellular iron mobilization to increase grain iron levels has not been reported. Vacuole is an important cell compartment for iron storage and the NATURAL RESISTANCE ASSOCIATED MACROPHAGE PROTEIN (NRAMP) family of transporters export iron from vacuoles to cytosol when needed. We developed transgenic Nipponbare rice lines expressing AtNRAMP3 under the control of the UBIQUITIN or rice embryo/aleurone-specific 18-kDa Oleosin (Ole18) promoter together with NICOTIANAMINE SYNTHASE (AtNAS1) and FERRITIN (PvFER), or expressing only AtNRAMP3 and PvFER together. Iron and zinc were increased close to recommended levels in polished grains of the transformed lines, with maximum levels when AtNRAMP3, AtNAS1 and PvFER were expressed together (12.67 μg/g DW iron and 45.60 μg/g DW zinc in polished grains of line NFON16). Similar high iron and zinc levels were obtained in transgenic Indica IR64 lines expressing the AtNRAMP3, AtNAS1 and PvFER cassette (13.65 μg/g DW iron and 48.18 μg/g DW zinc in polished grains of line IR64_1), equalling more than 90% of the recommended iron increase in rice endosperm. Our results demonstrate that targeting intracellular iron stores in combination with iron and zinc transport and endosperm storage is an effective strategy for iron biofortification. The increases achieved in polished IR64 grains are of dietary relevance for human health and a valuable nutrition trait for breeding programmes.
Background:                       Sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrids) is considered the most globally important sugar-producing crop and raw material for biofuel. Insect attack is a major issue in sugarcane cultivation, resulting in yield losses and sucrose content reductions. Stem borer (Diatraea saccharalis F.) causes serious yield losses in sugarcane worldwide. However, insect-resistant germplasms for sugarcane are not available in any collections all over the world, and the molecular mechanism of insect resistance has not been elucidated. In this study, cry1Ac transgenic sugarcane lines were obtained and the biological characteristics and transgene dosage effect were investigated and a global exploration of gene expression by transcriptome analysis was performed.                  Results:                       The transgene copies of foreign cry1Ac were variable and random. The correlation between the cry1Ac protein and cry1Ac gene copies differed between the transgenic lines from FN15 and ROC22. The medium copy lines from FN15 showed a significant linear relationship, while ROC22 showed no definite dosage effect. The transgenic lines with medium copies of cry1Ac showed an elite phenotype. Transcriptome analysis by RNA sequencing indicated that up/down regulated differentially expressed genes were abundant among the cry1Ac sugarcane lines and the receptor variety. Foreign cry1Ac gene and endogenous borer stress-related genes may have a synergistic effect. Three lines, namely, A1, A5, and A6, were selected for their excellent stem borer resistance and phenotypic traits and are expected to be used directly as cultivars or crossing parents for sugarcane borer resistance breeding.                  Conclusions:                       Cry1Ac gene integration dramatically improved sugarcane insect resistance. The elite transgenic offspring contained medium transgene copies. Foreign cry1Ac gene integration and endogenous borer stress-related genes may have a synergistic effect on sugarcane insect resistance improvement.
Over the next 40 years it has been estimated that a 50% increase in the yield of grain crops such as wheat and rice will be required to meet the food and fuel demands of the increasing world population. Transgenic tobacco plants have been generated with altered combinations of sedoheptulose-1,7-bisphosphatase, fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase, and the cyanobacterial putative-inorganic carbon transporter B, ictB, of which have all been identified as targets to improve photosynthesis based on empirical studies. It is shown here that increasing the levels of the three proteins individually significantly increases the rate of photosynthetic carbon assimilation, leaf area, and biomass yield. Furthermore, the daily integrated measurements of photosynthesis showed that mature plants fixed between 12-19% more CO2 than the equivalent wild-type plants. Further enhancement of photosynthesis and yield was observed when sedoheptulose-1,7-bisphosphatase, fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase, and ictB were over-expressed together in the same plant. These results demonstrate the potential for the manipulation of photosynthesis, using multigene-stacking approaches, to increase crop yields.
The production of low-cost biofuels in engineered microorganisms is of great interest due to the continual increase in the world's energy demands. Biodiesel is a renewable fuel that can potentially be produced in microbes cost-effectively. Fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) are a common component of biodiesel and can be synthesized from either triacylglycerol or free fatty acids (FFAs). Here we report the identification of a novel bacterial fatty acid methyltransferase (FAMT) that catalyzes the formation of FAMEs and 3-hydroxyl fatty acid methyl esters (3-OH-FAMEs) from the respective free acids and S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet). FAMT exhibits a higher specificity toward 3-hydroxy free fatty acids (3-OH-FFAs) than FFAs, synthesizing 3-hydroxy fatty acid methyl esters (3-OH-FAMEs) in vivo. We have also identified bacterial members of the fatty acyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) thioesterase (FAT) enzyme family with distinct acyl chain specificities. These bacterial FATs exhibit increased specificity toward 3-hydroxyacyl-ACP, generating 3-OH-FFAs, which can subsequently be utilized by FAMTs to produce 3-OH-FAMEs. PhaG (3-hydroxyacyl ACP:coenzyme A [CoA] transacylase) constitutes an alternative route to 3-OH-FFA synthesis; the coexpression of PhaG with FAMT led to the highest level of accumulation of 3-OH-FAMEs and FAMEs. The availability of AdoMet, the second substrate for FAMT, is an important factor regulating the amount of methyl esters produced by bacterial cells. Our results indicate that the deletion of the global methionine regulator metJ and the overexpression of methionine adenosyltransferase result in increased methyl ester synthesis.
Purpose:                       Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) represent a large group of recalcitrant environmental pollutants, differing in the number of chlorine atoms bound to biphenyl ring. Due to their excellent technological properties, PCBs were used as heat-transfer media, for filling transformers and condensers, as paint additives, etc. With increasing knowledge of their toxicity, transfer to food chains and accumulation in living organisms, their production ended in most countries in the 1970s and in 1984 in the former Czechoslovakia. But even a quarter of century after the PCB production ceased, from contaminated areas, the volatile PCBs evaporate and contaminate much larger areas even at very distant parts of the world. For this reason, PCBs still represent a global problem. The main method of PCB removal from contaminated environment is at present the expensive incineration at high temperatures. With the aim of finding effective alternative approaches, we are studying biological methods for PCB removal from the environment. In this paper, we summarise 10 years of studies using long-term PCB-contaminated soil from a dumpsite in South Bohemia, targeted for the use of plants (phytoremediation) and their cooperation with microorganisms in the root zone (rhizoremediation).                  Materials and methods:                       Long-term contaminated soil from Lhenice dumpsite, more than hundred kilograms of homogenised material, was used in microcosms (pots and buckets), and field plots were established at the site. Tested plants include among others tobacco, black nightshade, horseradish, alfalfa and willow. Aseptic plant cell and tissue cultures were from the collection of the IOCB. Microorganisms were our own isolates. The paper summarises experiments done between 1998 and 2008 with real contaminated soil, both vegetated and non-vegetated. PCB analysis was performed by GC-ECD, metabolic products identified mostly using 2D-GC/MS-MS and synthetic standards, whereas molecular methods included quantitative PCR and sequencing.                  Results:                       The soil was used both for preparation of field plots at the site and for greenhouse and laboratory tests in microcosms. The results include analyses of changes in PCB content in untreated and vegetated soil, PCB uptake and distribution in different parts of various plant species, analysis of products formed, identification and characterisation of cultivable and non-cultivable bacteria both in rhizosphere and in bulk soil. Different treatments and amendments were also tested. Experiments in real contaminated soil were accompanied by in vitro experiments using aseptic cultures of plant biomass, genetically modified (GM) plants and bacteria, to allow identification of players responsible for PCB metabolisation in soil. The time-span of the experiments allows extrapolating some of the results and drawing conclusions concerning the effectivity of exploitation of various plant species and treatments to remove PCBs from soils.                  Discussion:                       The approach using plants proved to represent a viable alternative to costly incineration of PCB-contaminated soils. The recent studies using molecular methods show that plants are responsible for the composition of consortia of microorganisms present in their root zone, including those with ability to degrade the chlorinated aromatic compounds.                  Conclusions:                       In addition to uptake, accumulation and partial metabolisation of PCBs by plants, compounds produced by plants allow survival of microorganisms even in poor soils, serve as carbon and energy source, and can even induce the degradation pathways of different xenobiotics. Thus, the choice of proper plant species is crucial for effective cleaning of different polluted sites. Our study shows how the efficiency of PCB removal is dependent on the plant used.                  Recommendations and perspectives:                       The use of plants in biological remediation of different organic xenobiotics proved to be a useful approach. Further improvement can be expected by application of specifically tailored GM plants and use of selective conditions ensuring high remediation potential based on optimal composition of the soil microbial consortia designed for the needs of given site.
In-situ bioremediation has been highly promising in degrading nitroaromatics in soil, e.g., 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT). The case of TNT is examined here as a representative nitroaromatic compound that belongs to a suite of explosive residue types scattered throughout the European Union and other areas of the world. Differences in cost-effectiveness and TNT degradation rates between existing methods have spurred extensive debate in bioremediation research of explosive-contaminated sites. Rhizoremediation (plant inoculation with a specific microorganism), including genetic modification of plant/tree species, has been treated as the next best remediation method due to excellent performance in the lab. However, recent data collected in the field do not support the initial enthusiasm, showing in many cases, no statistical difference between (non-)transgenic rhizoremediation and phytoremediation (use of wild plant types). Obviously, the role of indigenous rhizospheric microorganisms has been underestimated, impeding our progress towards identifying the critical components of the optimum bioremediation scheme. Future research directions to enhance the indigenous microbial activity in the plant rhizosphere via addition of chemical amendments, such as, nutrients (fertilizers), and/or chaotropic agents (urea) could improve the overall efficiency of existing phytoremediation schemes.
Spontaneous activity represents an early, primitive form of motor activity within zebrafish embryos, providing a potential readout for identification of neuroactive compounds. However, despite use as an endpoint in chemical screens around the world, the predictive power and limitations of assays relying on spontaneous activity remain unclear. Using an improved high-content screening assay that increased throughput from 384 to 3072 wells per week, we screened a well-characterized library of 1280 pharmacologically active compounds (LOPAC1280) - 612 of which target neurotransmission - to identify which targets are detected using spontaneous activity as a readout. Results from this screen revealed that (1) 8% of the LOPAC1280 library was biologically active; (2) spontaneous activity was affected by compounds spanning a broad array of targets; (3) only 4% of compounds targeting neurotransmission impacted spontaneous activity; and (4) hypoactivity was observed for 100% of hits detected, including those that exhibit opposing mechanisms of action for the same target. Therefore, while this assay was able to rapidly identify potent neuroactive chemicals, these data suggest that spontaneous activity may lack the ability to discriminate modes of action for compounds interfering with neurotransmission, an issue that may be due to systemic uptake following waterborne exposure, persistent control variation, and/or interference with non-neurotransmission-related mechanisms.
Rape seed (Brassica napus L.) is one of the most important oil seed crops in the world. Genetic manipulation of rapeseed requires a suitable tissue culture system and an efficient method for plant regeneration, as well as an efficient transformation procedure. However, development of transgenic B. napus has been problematic, and current studies are limited to cultivated varieties. In this study, we report a protocol for regeneration of transgenic rape after Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of hypocotyls from the spring B. napus 'Precocity' cultivar. We analyzed the effects of plant growth regulators in the medium on regeneration. Additionally, factors affecting the transformation efficiency, including seedling age, Agrobacterium concentration, infection time, and co-cultivation time, were assessed by monitoring GUS expression. Results from these experiments revealed that transformation was optimized when the meristematic parts of the hypocotyls were taken from 8 day-old seedlings, cultured on Murashinge and Skoog basal media containing 0.1 mg/L 1-naphthaleneacetic acid and 2.5 mg/L 6-benzylaminopurine, and incubated in Agrobacterium suspension (OD600 = 0.5) for 3 to 5 min, followed by 2 days of co-cultivation. Integration of T-DNA into the plant genome was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), b-glucuronidase histochemical staining, and quantitative real-time PCR. The protocols developed for regeneration, transformation, and rooting described in this study could help to accelerate the development of transgenic spring rape varieties with novel features.
Genetically modified or engineered organisms (GMOs, GEOs) are utilised in agriculture, expressing traits of interest, such as insect or herbicide resistance. Soybean, maize, cotton and oilseed rape are the GM crops with the largest acreage in the world. The distribution of GM acreage in the different countries is related with the different positions concerning labelling of GMO products: based on the principle of substantial equivalence, or rather based on the precautionary principle. The paper provides an overview on how the risks associated with release of GMO in the environments can be analysed and predicted, in view of a possible coexistence of GM and non-GM organisms in agriculture.Risk assessment procedures, both qualitative and quantitative, are compared in the context of application to GMOs considering also legislation requirements (Directive 2001/18/EC). Criteria and measurable properties to assess harm for human health and environmental safety are listed, and the possible consequences are evaluated in terms of significance.Finally, a mapping of the possible risks deriving from GMO release is reported, focusing on gene transfer to related species, horizontal gene transfer, direct and indirect effects on non target organisms, development of resistance in target organisms, and effects on biodiversity.
Drought is a major stress that affects the yield and quality of tea, a widely consumed beverage crop grown in more than 20 countries of the world. Therefore, osmotin gene-expressing transgenic tea plants produced using earlier optimized conditions were evaluated for their tolerance of drought stress and their quality. Improved tolerance of polyethylene glycol-induced water stress and faster recovery from stress were evident in transgenic lines compared with the normal phenotype. Significant improvements in growth under in-vitro conditions were also observed. Besides enhanced reactive oxygen species-scavenging enzyme activity, the transgenic lines contained significantly higher levels of flavan-3-ols and caffeine, key compounds that govern quality and commercial yield of the beverage. The selected transgenic lines have the potential to meet the demands of the tea industry for stress-tolerant plants with higher yield and quality. These traits of the transgenic lines can be effectively maintained for generations because tea is commercially cultivated through vegetative propagation only.
Graphene, a two-dimensional carbon sheet with single-atom thickness, have attracted the scientific world for its potential applications in various field including the biomedical areas. In the present study the graphene copper nanocomposite (GCNC) was synthesized, characterized and evaluated for its toxic potential on third instar larvae of transgenic Drosophila melanogaster (hsp70-lacZ)Bg(9) . The synthesized GCNC was analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning/transmission electron microscopy (SEM/TEM), atomic force microscopy (AFM), and fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). The GCNC in 0.1% DMSO was sonicated for 10 min and the final concentration of 0.033, 0.099, 0.199 and 3.996 µg/µl of diet were established. The third instar larvae were allowed to feed on it separately for 24 and 48 hrs. The hsp70 expression was measured by O-nitrophenyl-β-D-galactopyranoside assay, tissue damage by trypan blue exclusion test and β-galactosidase activity was monitored by in situ histochemical β-galactosidase staining. Oxidative stress was monitored by performing lipid peroxidation assay and total protein estimation. Ethidium bromide/acridine orange staining was performed on midgut cells for apoptotic index and the comet assay was performed for the DNA damage. The results of the present study showed that the exposure of 0.199 and 3.996 µg/µl of GCNC were toxic for 24 hr of exposure and for 48 hr of exposure: 0.099, 0.199 and 3.996 µg/µl of GCNC was toxic. The dose of 0.033 µg/µl of GCNC showed no toxic effects on its exposure to the third instar larvae for 24 hr as well as 48 hrs. This dose can be considered as No Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL).
Wheat is one of the most highly cultivated cereals in the world. Like other cultivated crops, wheat production is significantly affected by abiotic stresses such as drought. Multiple wheat varieties suitable for different geographical regions of the world have been developed that are adapted to different environmental conditions; however, the molecular basis of such adaptations remains unknown in most cases. We have compared the quantitative proteomics profile of the roots of two different wheat varieties, Nesser (drought-tolerant) and Opata (drought-sensitive), in the absence and presence of abscisic acid (ABA, as a proxy for drought). A labeling LC-based quantitative proteomics approach using iTRAQ was applied to elucidate the changes in protein abundance levels. Quantitative differences in protein levels were analyzed for the evaluation of inherent differences between the two varieties as well as the overall and variety-specific effect of ABA on the root proteome. This study reveals the most elaborate ABA-responsive root proteome identified to date in wheat. A large number of proteins exhibited inherently different expression levels between Nesser and Opata. Additionally, significantly higher numbers of proteins were ABA-responsive in Nesser roots compared with Opata roots. Furthermore, several proteins showed variety-specific regulation by ABA, suggesting their role in drought adaptation.
Transgenic cotton that produces insecticidal proteins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), often referred to as Bt cotton, is widely grown in many countries. Bt cotton with a single cry1A gene and stacked also with cry2A gene has provided satisfactory protection against the damage by the lepidopteran bollworms, especially the cotton bollworm, Helicoverpa armigera (Hübner) which is considered as a key pest. The baseline susceptibility of the larvae of H. armigera to Cry1Ac and other toxins carried out in many countries has provided a basis for monitoring resistance. There is no evidence of development of field-level resistance in H. armigera leading to the failure of Bt cotton crop anywhere in the world, despite the fact that Bt cotton was grown on the largest ever area of 12.1 million hectares in 2006 and its cumulative cultivation over the last 11 years has surpassed the annual cotton area in the world. Nevertheless, the Bt resistance management has become a necessity to sustain Bt cotton and other transgenic crops in view of potential of the target insects to evolve Cry toxin resistance.
In any drug discovery and development effort, a reduction in the time of the lead optimization cycle is critical to decrease the time to license and reduce costs. In addition, ethical guidelines call for the more ethical use of animals to minimize the number of animals used and decrease their suffering. Therefore, any effort to develop drugs to treat cutaneous leishmaniasis requires multiple tiers of in vivo testing that start with higher-throughput efficacy assessments and progress to lower-throughput models with the most clinical relevance. Here, we describe the validation of a high-throughput, first-tier, noninvasive model of lesion suppression that uses an in vivo optical imaging technology for the initial screening of compounds. A strong correlation between luciferase activity and the parasite load at up to 18 days postinfection was found. This correlation allows the direct assessment of the effects of drug treatment on parasite burden. We demonstrate that there is a strong correlation between drug efficacy measured on day 18 postinfection and the suppression of lesion size by day 60 postinfection, which allows us to reach an accurate conclusion on drug efficacy in only 18 days. Compounds demonstrating a significant reduction in the bioluminescence signal compared to that in control animals can be tested in lower-throughput, more definitive tests of lesion cure in BALB/c mice and Golden Syrian hamsters (GSH) using Old World and New World parasites.
Microalgae can accumulate various carbon-neutral products, but their real-world applications are hindered by their CO2 susceptibility. Herein, the transcriptomic changes in a model microalga, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, in a high-CO2 milieu (20%) are evaluated. The primary toxicity mechanism consists of aberrantly low expression of plasma membrane H+-ATPases (PMAs) accompanied by intracellular acidification. Our results demonstrate that the expression of a universally expressible PMA in wild-type strains makes them capable of not only thriving in acidity levels that they usually cannot survive but also exhibiting 3.2-fold increased photoautotrophic production against high CO2 via maintenance of a higher cytoplasmic pH. A proof-of-concept experiment involving cultivation with toxic flue gas (13 vol% CO2, 20 ppm NOX, and 32 ppm SOX) shows that the production of CO2-based bioproducts by the strain is doubled compared with that by the wild-type, implying that this strategy potentially enables the microalgal valorization of CO2 in industrial exhaust.
Water is a principal limitation to agricultural production during drought and in arid regions of the world. Mechanisms that plants use to cope with drought can be grouped into two different strategies: drought tolerance and drought avoidance. Previous efforts toward engineering plants for improved performance during drought have focused on drought tolerance, the ability to adjust to dry conditions. This report addresses the engineering of a drought-avoidance phenotype, which allows for the conservation of water during plant growth. The majority of water lost from plants occurs through stomata. When stomata are open, potassium, chloride and/or malate are present at high concentrations in guard cells. The accumulation of large numbers of ions during stomatal opening increases the turgor pressure of the guard cells, which results in increased pore size. Expression of a single gene from maize, NADP-malic enzyme (ME), which converts malate and NADP to pyruvate, NADPH, and CO(2), resulted in altered stomatal behaviour and water relations in tobacco. The ME-transformed plants had decreased stomatal conductance and gained more fresh mass per unit water consumed than did the wild type, but they were similar to the wild type in their growth and rate of development. Providing chloride via the transpiration stream partially reversed the effects of ME expression on stomatal aperture size, which is consistent with the interpretation that expression of ME altered malate metabolism in guard cells. These results suggest a role for malic enzyme in the mechanism of stomatal closure, as well as a potential mechanism for genetically altering plant water use.
Background:                       Late blight is the most serious potato disease world-wide. The most effective and environmentally sound way for controlling late blight is to incorporate natural resistance into potato cultivars. Several late blight resistance genes have been cloned recently. However, there is almost no information available about the resistance pathways mediated by any of those genes.                  Results:                       We previously cloned a late blight resistance gene, RB, from a diploid wild potato species Solanum bulbocastanum. Transgenic potato lines containing a single RB gene showed a rate-limiting resistance against all known races of Phytophthora infestans, the late blight pathogen. To better understand the RB-mediated resistance we silenced the potato Rar1 and Sgt1 genes that have been implicated in mediating disease resistance responses against various plant pathogens and pests. The Rar1 and Sgt1 genes of a RB-containing potato clone were silenced using a RNA interference (RNAi)-based approach. All of the silenced potato plants displayed phenotypically normal growth. The late blight resistance of the Rar1 and Sgt1 silenced lines were evaluated by a traditional greenhouse inoculation method and quantified using a GFP-tagged P. infestans strain. The resistance of the Rar1-silenced plants was not affected. However, silencing of the Sgt1 gene abolished the RB-mediated resistance.                  Conclusion:                       Our study shows that silencing of the Sgt1 gene in potato does not result in lethality. However, the Sgt1 gene is essential for the RB-mediated late blight resistance. In contrast, the Rar1 gene is not required for RB-mediated resistance. These results provide additional evidence for the universal role of the Sgt1 gene in various R gene-mediated plant defense responses.
Background:                       The cotton aphid, Aphis gossypii (Glover), is a destructive pest that affects numerous crops throughout the world. Pyrethroid resistance has become endemic in A. gossypii populations in the cotton growing areas of China due to wide- spread application of insecticides. To assess the extent of pyrethroid resistance, bioassays were conducted on field populations collected from several cotton cultivation areas from 2010 to 2015. The frequency of a known resistance-associated sodium channel mutation (M918 L) in A. gossypii was evaluated and the bioassay of bifenthrin with or without the synergist was performed to illuminate the mechanisms underlying resistance to pyrethroids.                  Results:                       The field populations exhibited very high levels of resistance to both beta-cypermethrin and deltamethrin. Pretreatment with synergists, DEF and PBO, significantly increased the toxicity of bifenthrin to cotton aphid populations collected from Bt cotton fields in China. Further, 96.8-100% of individuals with the M918 L mutation (including both RR and RS individuals) were observed in various populations, and only 2.8-3.2% of individuals with wild-type homozygotes (SS) were detected.                  Conclusion:                       The mutation M918 L in the voltage-gated sodium channel along with detoxifying metabolism was contributed to the pyrethroid resistance in the field populations of Aphis gossypii from cotton growing regions of China. And insecticides with different modes of action should be recommended for the control of A. gossypii in the future. © 2017 Society of Chemical Industry.
The use of conventional chemical insecticides and bacterial toxins to control lepidopteran pests of global agriculture has imposed significant selection pressure leading to the rapid evolution of insecticide resistance. Transgenic crops (e.g., cotton) expressing the Bt Cry toxins are now used world wide to control these pests, including the highly polyphagous and invasive cotton bollworm Helicoverpa armigera. Since 2004, the Cry2Ab toxin has become widely used for controlling H. armigera, often used in combination with Cry1Ac to delay resistance evolution. Isolation of H. armigera and H. punctigera individuals heterozygous for Cry2Ab resistance in 2002 and 2004, respectively, allowed aspects of Cry2Ab resistance (level, fitness costs, genetic dominance, complementation tests) to be characterised in both species. However, the gene identity and genetic changes conferring this resistance were unknown, as was the detailed Cry2Ab mode of action. No cross-resistance to Cry1Ac was observed in mutant lines. Biphasic linkage analysis of a Cry2Ab-resistant H. armigera family followed by exon-primed intron-crossing (EPIC) marker mapping and candidate gene sequencing identified three independent resistance-associated INDEL mutations in an ATP-Binding Cassette (ABC) transporter gene we named HaABCA2. A deletion mutation was also identified in the H. punctigera homolog from the resistant line. All mutations truncate the ABCA2 protein. Isolation of further Cry2Ab resistance alleles in the same gene from field H. armigera populations indicates unequal resistance allele frequencies and the potential for Bt resistance evolution. Identification of the gene involved in resistance as an ABC transporter of the A subfamily adds to the body of evidence on the crucial role this gene family plays in the mode of action of the Bt Cry toxins. The structural differences between the ABCA2, and that of the C subfamily required for Cry1Ac toxicity, indicate differences in the detailed mode-of-action of the two Bt Cry toxins.
Background:                       One of the goals of plant breeding is to create crops to provide better nutrition for humans and livestock. Insufficient intake of protein is one of the most severe factors affecting the growth and development of children in developing countries. More than a century ago, in 1896, Hopkins initiated the well-known Illinois long-term selection for maize seed protein concentration, yielding four protein strains. By continuously accumulating QTLs, Illinois High Protein (IHP) reached a protein level 2.5-fold higher than normal maize, with the most increased fraction being the zein protein, which was shown to contain no lysine soon after the long-term selection program initiated. Therefore, IHP is of little value for feeding humans and monogastric animals. Although high-lysine lines of non-vitreous mutants were based on reduced zeins, the kernel soft texture precluded their practical use. Kernel hardness in opaque 2 (o2) could be restored in quality protein maize (QPM) with quantitative trait loci called o2 modifiers (Mo2s), but those did not increase total protein levels.                  Methods:                       The most predominant zeins are the 22- and 19-kDa α-zeins. To achieve a combination of desired traits, we used RNA interference (RNAi) against both α-zeins in IHP and evaluated the silencing effect by SDS-PAGE. Total protein, amino acid composition and kernel texture were analyzed.                  Conclusions:                       The α-zeins were dramatically reduced, but the high total seed protein level remained unchanged by complementary increase of non-zein proteins. Moreover, the residual zein levels still allowed for a vitreous hard seed. Such dramatic rebalancing of the nitrogen sink could have a major impact in world food supply.
Should we set any limits on patenting? More specifically, must we set any limits on patenting in the field of biotechnology? There should be general agreement on the exclusion of humans from patentability. The European Parliament voted unanimously on an amendment to the Community Directive regarding patenting stating that the human body and its parts are not patentable as such. Patenting of humans indeed would be against fundamental human rights; against the shared principles of freedom, autonomy, and dignity of each single human being. The same reasons apply to requests to reject the "commercialization of the human body." However, much more difficult is reaching a consensus on what are the parts of humans that should not be marketed--organs, tissues, cells, genes, smaller DNA fragments? Probably there is no consensus on where to draw the line when we deal with parts of the human body. Nevertheless, an ethical component is very strong in raising opposition to patenting human DNA. Whatever our personal view on the issue, we cannot deny that ethical aspects must be considered in granting patents on human DNA. With reference to animals, the fears raised are that the patenting of transgenic animals could amplify the instrumental use (reification) and the neglect of their sentient nonobjectual nature: patenting could motivate, instead, the tendency to consider animals as the standard of things invented and as new consumer products. Moreover, animal patenting increases production and thus brings about the great suffering of animals. In regard to plants, the ethical implications of patenting have more to do with their socioeconomic effects, in particular on Third World countries, than for the organisms involved.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Background:                       Population suppression gene drive has been proposed as a strategy for malaria vector control. A CRISPR-Cas9-based transgene homing at the doublesex locus (dsxFCRISPRh) has recently been shown to increase rapidly in frequency in, and suppress, caged laboratory populations of the malaria mosquito vector Anopheles gambiae. Here, problem formulation, an initial step in environmental risk assessment (ERA), was performed for simulated field releases of the dsxFCRISPRh transgene in West Africa.                  Methods:                       Building on consultative workshops in Africa that previously identified relevant environmental and health protection goals for ERA of gene drive in malaria vector control, 8 potentially harmful effects from these simulated releases were identified. These were stratified into 46 plausible pathways describing the causal chain of events that would be required for potential harms to occur. Risk hypotheses to interrogate critical steps in each pathway, and an analysis plan involving experiments, modelling and literature review to test each of those risk hypotheses, were developed.                  Results:                       Most potential harms involved increased human (n = 13) or animal (n = 13) disease transmission, emphasizing the importance to subsequent stages of ERA of data on vectorial capacity comparing transgenics to non-transgenics. Although some of the pathways (n = 14) were based on known anatomical alterations in dsxFCRISPRh homozygotes, many could also be applicable to field releases of a range of other transgenic strains of mosquito (n = 18). In addition to population suppression of target organisms being an accepted outcome for existing vector control programmes, these investigations also revealed that the efficacy of population suppression caused by the dsxFCRISPRh transgene should itself directly affect most pathways (n = 35).                  Conclusions:                       Modelling will play an essential role in subsequent stages of ERA by clarifying the dynamics of this relationship between population suppression and reduction in exposure to specific potential harms. This analysis represents a comprehensive identification of plausible pathways to potential harm using problem formulation for a specific gene drive transgene and organism, and a transparent communication tool that could inform future regulatory studies, guide subsequent stages of ERA, and stimulate further, broader engagement on the use of population suppression gene drive to control malaria vectors in West Africa.
Important development in plant biotechnology has been ushered in the 1990s, the most astounding field is the establishment of various transgenic crops, including cotton, corn, rice, tomato etc. In addition, utilization of transgenic plants for the generation of antibodies, gene epitopes and complex proteins has drawn much attention recently. Among these results, the use of plant parts with inducted antigens such as cholera toxin B subunit, toxigenic E. coli LT-B subunit as oral vaccines is attractive as a new route of medication. Considering their effectiveness as vaccines in animal and clinical tests, and simple agricultural practice for large scale production it is anticipated that these antibodies are bound to offer impact to health care for people of the Third World. In this short review, the laboratory and successful clinical test, merits and demerits in comparison with the currently used bioreactors, methods of extraction, and cost estimation of transgenic plant products for medical purposes are briefly reviewed.
Canola (Brassica napus) plants were co-transformed with two pathogenesis-related protein genes expressing a Trichoderma atroviride chitinase with a chitin-binding domain (chimeric chitinase) and a thaumatin-like protein (tlp) from Oryza sativa conferring resistance to phytopatogenic fungi by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The putative transgenic plants were confirmed by PCR. After measuring the specific activity of the chimeric chitinase and glucanase activity for tlp genes, transgenic plants with high specific activity were selected for southern blot analysis to confirm the copy number of the genes. In vitro assays, the antifungal activity of crude extracted protein against Sclerotinia sclerotiorum showed that the inhibition percentage in double transgenic plants was between 55 and 62, whereas the inhibition percentage in single-gene transformants (chimeric chitinase) ranged from 35 to 45 percent. Importantly, in greenhouse conditions, the double transgenic plants showed significant resistance than the single-gene transformant and wild type plants. The results in T2 generation using the intact leaf inoculation method showed that the average lesion diameters were 10, 14.7 and 29 mm for the double transformant, single-gene transformant and non-transgenic plants, respectively. Combined expression of chimeric chitinase and tlp in transgenic plants showed significantly enhanced resistance against S. sclerotiorum than the one that express single-gene transformant plants. These results suggest that the co-expression of chimeric chitinase and tlp can confer enhanced disease resistance in canola plant.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder in humans. It affects 1% of the population over 65-years old. Its causes are environmental and genetic. As the world population ages, there is an urgent need for better and more detailed animal models for this kind of disease. In this work we show that the use of transgenic Drosophila is comparable to more complicated and costly animal models such as mice. The Drosophila model behaves very similar to the equivalent transgenic mice model. We show that both Synphilin-1 and α-synuclein are toxic by themselves, but when co-expressed, they suppress their toxicity reciprocally. Importantly, the symptoms induced in the fly can be treated and partially reverted using standard PD pharmacological treatments. This work showcases Drosophila as a detailed and multifaceted model for Parkinson's disease, providing a convenient platform in which to study and find new genetic modifiers of PD. genesis 49:392-402, 2011.
Genetically modified foods are a major concern around the world due to the lack of information concerning their safety and health effects. This work evaluates differences, at the proteomic level, between two types of crop samples: transgenic (MON810 event with the Cry1Ab gene, which confers resistance to insects) and non-transgenic maize flour commercialized in Brazil. The 2-D DIGE technique revealed 99 differentially expressed spots, which were collected in 2-D PAGE gels and identified via mass spectrometry (nESI-QTOF MS/MS). The abundance of protein differences between the transgenic and non-transgenic samples could arise from genetic modification or as a result of an environmental influence pertaining to the commercial sample. The major functional category of proteins identified was related to disease/defense and, although differences were observed between samples, no toxins or allergenic proteins were found.
Considered an EPPO A2 quarantine pest, Bursaphelenchus xylophilus is the causal agent of the pine wilt disease and the most devastating plant parasitic nematode attacking coniferous trees in the world. In the early stages of invasion, this nematode has to manage host defence mechanisms, such as strong oxidative stress. Only successful, virulent nematodes are able to tolerate the basal plant defences, and furthermore migrate and proliferate inside of the host tree. In this work, our main objective was to understand to what extent B. xylophilus catalases are involved in their tolerance to oxidative stress and virulence, using as oxidant agent the reactive oxygen species hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). After 24 hours of exposure, high virulence isolates of B. xylophilus could withstand higher H2O2 concentrations in comparison with low virulence B. xylophilus and B. mucronatus, corroborating our observation of Bxy-ctl-1 and Bxy-ctl-2 catalase up-regulation under the same experimental conditions. Both catalases are expressed throughout the nematode intestine. In addition, transgenic strains of Caenorhabditis elegans overexpressing B. xylophilus catalases were constructed and evaluated for survival under similar conditions as previously. Our results suggest that catalases of high virulence B. xylophilus were crucial for nematode survival under prolonged exposure to in vitro oxidative stress, highlighting their adaptive response, which could contribute to their success in host conditions.
Parasitic plants present some of the most intractable weed problems for agriculture in much of the world. Species of root parasites such as Orobanche can cause enormous yield losses, yet few control measures are effective and affordable. An ideal solution to this problem is the development of parasite-resistant crops, but this goal has been elusive for most susceptible crops. Here we report a mechanism for resistance to the parasitic angiosperm Orobanche based on expression of sarcotoxin IA in transgenic tobacco. Sarcotoxin IA is a 40-residue peptide with antibiotic activity, originally isolated from the fly, Sarcophaga peregrina. The sarcotoxin IA gene was fused to an Orobanche-inducible promoter, HMG2, which is induced locally in the host root at the point of contact with the parasite, and used to transform tobacco. The resulting transgenic plants accumulated more biomass than non-transformed plants in the presence of parasites. Furthermore, plants expressing sarcotoxin IA showed enhanced resistance to O. aegyptiaca as evidenced by abnormal parasite development and higher parasite mortality after attachment as compared to non-transformed plants. The transgenic plants were similar in appearance to non-transformed plants suggesting that sarcotoxin IA is not detrimental to the host.
Global warming has seriously decreased world crop yield. High temperatures affect development, growth and, particularly, reproductive tissues in plants. A gene encoding β-ureidopropionase (SlUPB1, EC 3.5.1.6) was isolated from the stamens of a heat-tolerant tomato (CL5915) using suppression subtractive hybridization. SlUPB1 catalyzes the production of β-alanine, the only β-form amino acid in nature. In the anthesis stage, SlUPB1 expression in CL5915 stamens, growing at 35/30°C (day/night), was 2.16 and 2.93 times greater than that in a heat-sensitive tomato (L4783) cultivated at 30/25°C or 25/20°C, respectively. Transgenic tomatoes, upregulating SlUPB1 in L4783 and downregulating SlUPB1 in CL5915, were constructed, and the amount of β-alanine measured by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry in the transgenic overexpression of SlUPB1 was higher than that of L4783. However, the β-alanine in the transgenics downregulating SlUPB1 was significantly lower than the β-alanine of CL5915. Pollen germination rates of these transgenics were analyzed under different developmental and germinating temperatures. The results indicated that germination rates of transgenics overexpressing SlUPB1 were higher than germination rates of the background tomato L4783. Germination rates of transgenics downregulating SlUPB1 were significantly lower than germination rates of background tomato CL5915, indicating the necessity of functional SlUPB1 for pollen germination. Pollen germinating in the buffer with the addition of β-alanine further indicated that β-alanine effectively enhanced pollen germination in tomatoes with low SlUPB1 expression. Together, these results showed that the expression of SlUPB1 is important for pollen germination, and β-alanine may play a role in pollen germination under both optimal and high temperatures.
Because genetically modified crops are developing widely in the world while nanoparticles (NPs) are being synthesized and applied in various fields, they will have many opportunities for interactions in the future. The effects of NPs on genetically modified crops therefore require investigation. In the present study, CeO2 NPs were revealed to have toxic effects on root biomass of Bt 29317 at 100 and 500 mg L(-1), but had no toxic effects on Jihe 321. Besides, we also studied the effects of CeO2 NPs on nutrient element uptake in transgenic cotton, and found that contents of most nutrient elements (Fe, Ca, Mg, Zn and Na) in roots of Bt 29317 were affected at lower NP concentrations (100 mg L(-1)) compared with Jihe 321. In addition, ICP-MS analysis revealed that CeO2 NPs were more heavily adsorbed by roots of Bt 29317 than Jihe 321, whereas fewer CeO2 NPs were transported from roots to shoots of Bt 29317 than its non-transgenic counterpart. These data confirm that Bt 29317 is more sensitive to CeO2 NPs than its parental non-transgenic cotton, indicating that nanomaterials are potentially more detrimental to transgenic plants than conventional ones.
Heavy metals are among the most common and harmful pollutants reaching the soil ecosystem all over the world. Phytoextraction is an effective, non-intrusive, inexpensive, aesthetically pleasing, socially accepted, highly promising phytotechnology for the remediation of soils polluted with heavy metals. To overcome the so-called 'Achilles' heel' of phytoextraction, namely, the long time needed for effective remediation, this phytotechnology should be combined with other profit-making activities such as forestry or bioenergy production. Dendroremediation, or the use of trees to clean up polluted soil and water, appears of great potential for metal phytoextraction, especially when using fast-growing tree species, for example, willows (Salix sp. pl.) and poplars (Populus sp. pl.). Most important, the ecologic and environmental risks of dispersing heavy metals into the ecosystems by dendroremediation strategies should be minimized by selecting the right tree species, properly managing/disposing the polluted plant material, or a combination of both options.
Drought has severe effects on plant growth, forest productivity, and survival throughout the world. Understanding the molecular regulation of drought resistance in forest trees can enable effective strategic engineering of novel drought-resistant genotypes of tree species. In this study, we identified a gene, PtrVCS2, encoding a zinc finger (ZF) protein of the ZF-homeodomain transcription factor in Populus trichocarpa (Black Cottonwood) Torr. & A. Gray. ex Hook. Overexpression of PtrVCS2 (OE-PtrVCS2) in P. trichocarpa resulted in reduced growth, a higher proportion of smaller stem vessels, and strong drought-resistance phenotypes. Stomatal movement experiments revealed that the OE-PtrVCS2 transgenics showed lower stomata apertures than wild-type plants under drought conditions. RNA-seq analysis of the OE-PtrVCS2 transgenics showed that PtrVCS2 regulates the expression of multiple genes involved in regulation of stomatal opening and closing, particularly the PtrSULTR3;1-1 gene, and several genes related to cell wall biosynthesis, such as PtrFLA11-12 and PtrPR3-3. Moreover, we found that the water use efficiency of the OE-PtrVCS2 transgenic plants was consistently higher than that of wild type plants when subjected to chronic drought stress. Taken together, our results suggest that PtrVCS2 plays a positive role in improving drought adaptability and resistance in P. trichocarpa.
Late blight, caused by the oomycete pathogen Phytophthora infestans, is the most devastating potato disease in the world. Control of late blight in the United States and other developed countries relies extensively on fungicide application. We previously demonstrated that the wild diploid potato species Solanum bulbocastanum is highly resistant to all known races of P. infestans. Potato germplasm derived from S. bulbocastanum has shown durable and effective resistance in the field. Here we report the cloning of the major resistance gene RB in S. bulbocastanum by using a map-based approach in combination with a long-range (LR)-PCR strategy. A cluster of four resistance genes of the CC-NBS-LRR (coiled coil-nucleotide binding site-Leu-rich repeat) class was found within the genetically mapped RB region. Transgenic plants containing a LR-PCR product of one of these four genes displayed broad spectrum late blight resistance. The cloned RB gene provides a new resource for developing late blight-resistant potato varieties. Our results also demonstrate that LR-PCR is a valuable approach to isolate genes that cannot be maintained in the bacterial artificial chromosome system.
An international initiative is developing a scientifically rigorous approach to evaluate the potential risks to nontarget arthropods (NTAs) posed by insect-resistant, genetically modified (IRGM) crops. It adapts the tiered approach to risk assessment that is used internationally within regulatory toxicology and environmental sciences. The approach focuses on the formulation and testing of clearly stated risk hypotheses, making maximum use of available data and using formal decision guidelines to progress between testing stages (or tiers). It is intended to provide guidance to regulatory agencies that are currently developing their own NTA risk assessment guidelines for IRGM crops and to help harmonize regulatory requirements between different countries and different regions of the world.
Background and aims:                       Expected increases in world population will continue to make demands on agricultural productivity and food supply. These challenges will only be met by increasing the land under cultivation and by improving the yields obtained on existing farms. Genetic engineering can target key traits to improve crop yields and to increase production on marginal soils. Soil acidity is a major abiotic stress that limits plant production worldwide. The goal of this study was to enhance the acid soil tolerance of wheat by increasing its resistance to Al(3+) toxicity.                  Methods:                       Particle bombardment was used to transform wheat with TaALMT1, the Al(3+) resistance gene from wheat, using the maize ubiquitin promoter to drive expression. TaALMT1 expression, malate efflux and Al(3+) resistance were measured in the T(1) and T(2) lines and compared with the parental line and an Al(3+)-resistant reference genotype, ET8.                  Key results:                       Nine T(2) lines showed increased TaALMT1 expression, malate efflux and Al(3+) resistance when compared with untransformed controls and null segregant lines. Some T(2) lines displayed greater Al(3+) resistance than ET8 in both hydroponic and soil experiments.                  Conclusions:                       The Al(3+) resistance of wheat was increased by enhancing TaALMT1 expression with biotechnology. This is the first report of a major food crop being stably transformed for greater Al(3+) resistance. Transgenic strategies provide options for increasing food supply on acid soils.
Potato (Solanum tuberosum) is the third most important food crop in the world. Potato tubers must be stored at cold temperatures to prevent sprouting, minimize disease losses, and supply consumers and the processing industry with high-quality tubers throughout the year. Unfortunately, cold storage triggers an accumulation of reducing sugars in tubers. High-temperature processing of these tubers results in dark-colored, bitter-tasting products. Such products also have elevated amounts of acrylamide, a neurotoxin and potential carcinogen. We demonstrate that silencing the potato vacuolar acid invertase gene VInv prevents reducing sugar accumulation in cold-stored tubers. Potato chips processed from VInv silencing lines showed a 15-fold acrylamide reduction and were light in color even when tubers were stored at 4°C. Comparable, low levels of VInv gene expression were observed in cold-stored tubers from wild potato germplasm stocks that are resistant to cold-induced sweetening. Thus, both processing quality and acrylamide problems in potato can be controlled effectively by suppression of the VInv gene through biotechnology or targeted breeding.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of cognitive loss and neurodegeneration in the developed world. Although its genetic and environmental causes are not generally known, familial forms of the disease (FAD) are attributable to mutations in a single copy of the Presenilin (PS) and amyloid precursor protein genes. The dominant inheritance pattern of FAD indicates that it may be attributable to gain or change of function mutations. Studies of FAD-linked forms of presenilin (psn) in model organisms, however, indicate that they are loss of function, leading to the possibility that a reduction in PS activity might contribute to FAD and that proper psn levels are important for maintaining normal cognition throughout life. To explore this issue further, we have tested the effect of reducing psn activity during aging in Drosophila melanogaster males. We have found that flies in which the dosage of psn function is reduced by 50% display age-onset impairments in learning and memory. Treatment with metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonists or lithium during the aging process prevented the onset of these deficits, and treatment of aged flies reversed the age-dependent deficits. Genetic reduction of Drosophila metabotropic glutamate receptor (DmGluRA), the inositol trisphosphate receptor (InsP(3)R), or inositol polyphosphate 1-phosphatase also prevented these age-onset cognitive deficits. These findings suggest that reduced psn activity may contribute to the age-onset cognitive loss observed with FAD. They also indicate that enhanced mGluR signaling and calcium release regulated by InsP(3)R as underlying causes of the age-dependent cognitive phenotypes observed when psn activity is reduced.
Phosphate (Pi)-deficient soils are a major limitant factor for crop production in many regions of the world. Despite that plants have innovated several developmental and biochemical strategies to deal with this stress, there are still massive extensions of land which combine several abiotic stresses, including phosphate starvation, that limit their use for plant growth and food production. In several plant species, a genetic programme underlies the biochemical and developmental responses of the organism to cope with low phosphate (Pi) availability. Both protein- and miRNA-coding genes involved in the adaptative response are transcriptionally activated upon Pi starvation. Several of the responsive genes have been identified as transcriptional targets of PHR1, a transcription factor that binds a conserved cis-element called PHR1-binding site (P1BS). Our group has previously described and characterized a minimal genetic arrangement that includes two P1BS elements, as a phosphate-responsive enhancer (EZ2). Here, we report the engineering and successful use of a phosphate-dependent bidirectional promoter, which has been designed and constructed based on the palindromic sequences of the two P1BS elements present in EZ2. This bidirectional promoter has a potential use in both plant in vitro approaches and in the generation of improved crops adapted to Pi starvation and other abiotic stresses.
Several of the enzymes related to the folate cycle are well-known for their role as clinically validated antimalarial targets. Nevertheless for serine hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT), one of the key enzymes of this cycle, efficient inhibitors have not been described so far. On the basis of plant SHMT inhibitors from an herbicide optimization program, highly potent inhibitors of Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) and Plasmodium vivax (Pv) SHMT with a pyrazolopyran core structure were identified. Cocrystal structures of potent inhibitors with PvSHMT were solved at 2.6 Å resolution. These ligands showed activity (IC50/EC50 values) in the nanomolar range against purified PfSHMT, blood-stage Pf, and liver-stage P. berghei (Pb) cells and a high selectivity when assayed against mammalian cell lines. Pharmacokinetic limitations are the most plausible explanation for lack of significant activity of the inhibitors in the in vivo Pb mouse malaria model.
Increased expression of an Arabidopsis vacuolar pyrophosphatase gene, AVP1, leads to increased drought and salt tolerance in transgenic plants, which has been demonstrated in laboratory and field conditions. The molecular mechanism of AVP1-mediated drought resistance is likely due to increased proton pump activity of the vacuolar pyrophosphatase, which generates a higher proton electrochemical gradient across the vacuolar membrane, leading to lower water potential in the plant vacuole and higher secondary transporter activities that prevent ion accumulation to toxic levels in the cytoplasm. Additionally, overexpression of AVP1 appears to stimulate auxin polar transport, which in turn stimulates root development. The larger root system allows AVP1-overexpressing plants to absorb water more efficiently under drought and saline conditions, resulting in stress tolerance and increased yields. Multi-year field-trial data indicate that overexpression of AVP1 in cotton leads to at least 20% more fiber yield than wild-type control plants in dry-land conditions, which highlights the potential use of AVP1 in improving drought tolerance in crops in arid and semiarid areas of the world.
Cucurbita maxima Duchesne squash and pumpkins are cultivated world-wide. Cucurbita maxima fruits are produced for fresh market and are valuable for food processing. Therefore, fruit characteristics and yield are the traits of high economic importance for breeders. To date, the genetic basis of fruit-associated traits in C. maxima have been poorly understood. In the present study, we evaluated fruit-associated traits and conducted quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis using recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross of two inbred lines with different fruit morphotypes. Phenotypic data for nine fruit traits (earliness, weight, number per plant, yield per plant, length and diameter, shape index, flesh thickness, sucrose content and dry matter content) were collected for RILs in two open-field experiments. Pairwise analysis of the phenotypic data revealed correlations among the fruit and yield-associated traits. Using a previously developed genetic map, we identified 26 QTLs for eight traits. The QTLs were found in 10 locations on eight chromosomes of C. maxima. The QTLs were detected across experiments and explained up to 41.4% of the observed phenotypic variations. Major-effect QTLs for multiple fruit-associated traits were clustered on chromosome 4, suggesting that this genomic region has been under selection during diversification and/or domestication of C. maxima.
Influenza epidemics frequently and unpredictably break out all over the world, and seriously affect the breeding industry and human activity. Inactivated and live attenuated viruses have been used as protective vaccines but exhibit high risks for biosafety. Subunit vaccines enjoy high biosafety and specificity but have a few weak points compared to inactivated virus or live attenuated virus vaccines, especially in low immunogenicity. In this study, we developed a new subunit vaccine platform for a potent, adjuvant-free, and multivalent vaccination. The ectodomains of hemagglutinins (HAs) of influenza viruses were expressed in plants as trimers (tHAs) to mimic their native forms. tHAs in plant extracts were directly used without purification for binding to inactivated Lactococcus (iLact) to produce iLact-tHAs, an antigen-carrying bacteria-like particle (BLP). tHAs BLP showed strong immune responses in mice and chickens without adjuvants. Moreover, simultaneous injection of two different antigens by two different formulas, tHAH5N6 + H9N2 BLP or a combination of tHAH5N6 BLP and tHAH9N2 BLP, led to strong immune responses to both antigens. Based on these results, we propose combinations of plant-based antigen production and BLP-based delivery as a highly potent and cost-effective platform for multivalent vaccination for subunit vaccines.
The microbial world presents a complex palette of opportunities and dangers to animals, which have developed surveillance and response strategies to hints of microbial intent. We show here that the mitochondrial homeostatic response pathway of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans responds to Escherichia coli mutations that activate free radical detoxification pathways. Activation of C. elegans mitochondrial responses could be suppressed by additional mutations in E. coli, suggesting that C. elegans responds to products of E. coli to anticipate challenges to its mitochondrion. Out of 50 C. elegans gene inactivations known to mediate mitochondrial defense, we found that 7 genes were required for C. elegans response to a free radical producing E. coli mutant, including the bZip transcription factor atfs-1 (activating transcription factor associated with stress). An atfs-1 loss-of-function mutant was partially resistant to the effects of free radical-producing E. coli mutant, but a constitutively active atfs-1 mutant growing on wild-type E. coli inappropriately activated the pattern of mitochondrial responses normally induced by an E. coli free radical pathway mutant. Carbonylated proteins from free radical-producing E. coli mutant may directly activate the ATFS-1/bZIP transcription factor to induce mitochondrial stress response: feeding C. elegans with H2O2-treated E. coli induces the mitochondrial unfolded protein response, and inhibition of a gut peptide transporter partially suppressed C. elegans response to free radical damaged E. coli.
Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) varieties produced using modern biotechnologies, such as genetic engineering and mutagenic techniques, have lagged behind other crop species, but are now being developed and, in the case of mutagenic wheat, commercially grown around the world. Because these wheat varieties have emerged recently, there is a unique opportunity to assess comparatively the potential environmental risks (human health, ecological, and livestock risks) associated with genetically engineered, mutagenic, and conventional wheat production systems. Replacement of traditional herbicides with glyphosate in a glyphosate-tolerant (genetically engineered) wheat system or imazamox in an imidazolinone-tolerant (mutagenic) wheat system may alter environmental risks associated with weed management. Additionally, because both systems rely on plants that express novel proteins, the proteins and plants themselves may impose risks. The purpose of our study was to examine comparatively the multiple aspects of risk associated with different wheat production systems in the US and Canada using the risk assessment paradigm. Specifically, we used tier 1 quantitative and qualitative risk assessment methods to compare specific environmental risks associated with the different wheat production systems. Both glyphosate and imazamox present lower human health and ecological risks than many other herbicides associated with conventional wheat production systems evaluated in this study. The differences in risks were most pronounced when comparing glyphosate and imazamox to herbicides currently with substantial market share. Current weight-of-evidence suggests that the transgenic CP4 EPSPS protein present in glyphosate-tolerant wheat poses negligible risk to humans, livestock, and wildlife. Risk for mutated AHAS protein in imidazolinone-tolerant wheat most likely would be low, but there are not sufficient effect and exposure data to adequately characterize risk. Environmental risks for herbicides were more amenable to quantitative assessments than for the transgenic CP4 EPSPS protein and the mutated AHAS protein.
Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder affecting people of all ages, races and ethnic backgrounds world-wide. Vitamin B6 supplementation has been widely used as an adjuvant for treating epilepsy. However, the adverse effects, including nausea and peripheral sensory neuropathy, caused by long-term and high-dose consumption of vitamin B6 have undermined the usefulness of vitamin B6 supplementation, justifying additional experimental scrutiny of vitamin B6-associated toxicity. In the current study, we found that the presence of pyridoxine, the inactive form of B6 vitamer included in most nutrient supplements, increased the mortality of the larvae displaying chemical-induced epilepsy. The expression of leptin-b, one zebrafish ortholog of human leptin, was significantly increased in the larvae displaying seizures. Increased leptin-b expression alleviated larval seizure-like behavior when exposed to epilepsy inducer, but also increased larval mortality in the presence of pyridoxine. Meanwhile, elevated adam17 and mmp13 mRNA level were found in the larvae simultaneously exposed to epilepsy-inducer and pyridoxine. Adding TNF-α inhibitor and mmp13 inhibitor effectively improved the survival of larvae injected with leptin-b mRNA and exposed to pyridoxine subsequently. We conclude that increased leptin-b and metalloprotease expression contributed, at least partly, to the pyridoxine-associated toxicity observed in larvae displaying seizures.
Most Oryza sativa cultivars die within a week of complete submergence--a major constraint to rice production in south and southeast Asia that causes annual losses of over US 1 billion dollars and affects disproportionately the poorest farmers in the world. A few cultivars, such as the O. sativa ssp. indica cultivar FR13A, are highly tolerant and survive up to two weeks of complete submergence owing to a major quantitative trait locus designated Submergence 1 (Sub1) near the centromere of chromosome 9 (refs 3, 4, 5-6). Here we describe the identification of a cluster of three genes at the Sub1 locus, encoding putative ethylene response factors. Two of these genes, Sub1B and Sub1C, are invariably present in the Sub1 region of all rice accessions analysed. In contrast, the presence of Sub1A is variable. A survey identified two alleles within those indica varieties that possess this gene: a tolerance-specific allele named Sub1A-1 and an intolerance-specific allele named Sub1A-2. Overexpression of Sub1A-1 in a submergence-intolerant O. sativa ssp. japonica conferred enhanced tolerance to the plants, downregulation of Sub1C and upregulation of Alcohol dehydrogenase 1 (Adh1), indicating that Sub1A-1 is a primary determinant of submergence tolerance. The FR13A Sub1 locus was introgressed into a widely grown Asian rice cultivar using marker-assisted selection. The new variety maintains the high yield and other agronomic properties of the recurrent parent and is tolerant to submergence. Cultivation of this variety is expected to provide protection against damaging floods and increase crop security for farmers.
Nearly one-third of the world's population, mostly women and children, suffer from iron malnutrition and its consequences, such as anaemia or impaired mental development. Iron fortification of food is difficult because soluble iron is either unstable or unpalatable, and non-soluble iron is not bioavailable. Genetic engineering of crop plants to increase iron content has therefore emerged as an alternative for iron biofortification. To date, strategies to increase iron content have relied on single genes, with limited success. Our work focuses on rice as a model plant, because it feeds one-half of the world's population, including the majority of the iron-malnourished population. Using the targeted expression of two transgenes, nicotianamine synthase and ferritin, we increased the iron content of rice endosperm by more than six-fold. Analysis of transgenic rice lines confirmed that, in combination, they provide a synergistic effect on iron uptake and storage. Laser ablation-inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry showed that the iron in the endosperm of the transgenic rice lines accumulated in spots, most probably as a consequence of spatially restricted ferritin accumulation. Agronomic evaluation of the high-iron rice lines did not reveal a yield penalty or significant changes in trait characters, except for a tendency to earlier flowering. Overall, we have demonstrated that rice can be engineered with a small number of genes to achieve iron biofortification at a dietary significant level.
The origin of all mitochondria can be traced to the symbiotic arrangement that resulted in the emergence of eukaryotes in a world that was exclusively populated by prokaryotes. This arrangement, however, has been in continuous genetic flux: the varying degrees of gene loss and transfer from the mitochondrial genome in different eukaryotic lineages seem to signify an ongoing 'conflict' between the host and the symbiont. Eukaryotic parasites belonging to the phylum Apicomplexa provide an excellent example to support this view. These organisms contain the smallest mitochondrial genomes known, with an organization that differs among various genera; one genus, Cryptosporidium, seems to have lost the entire mitochondrial genome. Here we show that erythrocytic stages of the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum seem to maintain an active mitochondrial electron transport chain to serve just one metabolic function: regeneration of ubiquinone required as the electron acceptor for dihydroorotate dehydrogenase, an essential enzyme for pyrimidine biosynthesis. Transgenic P. falciparum parasites expressing Saccharomyces cerevisiae dihydroorotate dehydrogenase, which does not require ubiquinone as an electron acceptor, were completely resistant to inhibitors of mitochondrial electron transport. Maintenance of mitochondrial membrane potential, however, was essential in these parasites, as indicated by their hypersensitivity to proguanil, a drug that collapsed the membrane potential in the presence of electron transport inhibitors. Thus, acquisition of just one enzyme can render mitochondrial electron transport nonessential in erythrocytic stages of P. falciparum.
Plant-mediated RNAi has been developed as a powerful weapon in the fight against agricultural insect pests. The gap gene hunchback (hb) is of crucial importance in insect axial patterning and knockdown of hb is deforming and lethal to the next generation. The peach potato aphid, Myzus persicae (Sulzer), has many host plants and can be found throughout the world. To investigate the effect of plant-mediated RNAi on control of this insect, the hb gene in M. persicae was cloned, plant RNAi vector was constructed, and transgenic tobacco expressing Mphb dsRNA was developed. Transgenic tobacco had a different integration pattern of the transgene. Bioassays were performed by applying neonate aphids to homozygous transgenic plants in the T2 generation. Results revealed that continuous feeding of transgenic diet reduced Mphb mRNA level in the fed aphids and inhibited insect reproduction, indicating successful knockdown of the target gene in M. persicae by plant-mediated RNAi.
Isoflavones are not involved in rhizobial signaling in red clover, but likely play a role in defense in the rhizosphere. Red clover (Trifolium pratense) is a high-quality forage legume, well suited for grazing and hay production in the temperate regions of the world. Like many legumes, red clover produces a number of phenylpropanoid compounds including anthocyanidins, flavan-3-ols, flavanols, flavanones, flavones, and isoflavones. The study of isoflavone biosynthesis and accumulation in legumes has come into the forefront of biomedical and agricultural research due to potential for medicinal, antimicrobial, and environmental implications. CRISPR/Cas9 was used to knock out the function of a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of isoflavones, isoflavone synthase (IFS1). A hemizygous plant carrying a 9-bp deletion in the IFS1 gene was recovered and was intercrossed to obtain homozygous mutant plants. Levels of the isoflavones formononetin, biochanin A and genistein were significantly reduced in the mutant plants. Wild-type and mutant plants were inoculated with rhizobia to test the effect of the mutation on nodulation, but no significant differences were observed, suggesting that these isoflavones do not play important roles in nodulation. Gene expression profiling revealed an increase in expression of the upstream genes producing the precursors for IFS1, namely, phenylalanine ammonium lyase and chalcone synthase, but there were no significant differences in IFS1 gene expression or in the downstream genes in the production of specific isoflavones. Higher expression in genes involved in ethylene response was observed in the mutant plants. This response is normally associated with biotic stress, suggesting that the plants may have been responding to cues in the surrounding rhizosphere due to lower levels of isoflavones.
Seed weight (SW), which is one of the three major factors influencing grain yield, has been widely accepted as a complex trait that is controlled by polygenes, particularly in polyploid crops. Brassica napus L., which is the second leading crop source for vegetable oil around the world, is a tetraploid (4×) species. In the present study, we identified a major quantitative trait locus (QTL) on chromosome A9 of rapeseed in which the genes for SW and silique length (SL) were colocated. By fine mapping and association analysis, we uncovered a 165-bp deletion in the auxin-response factor 18 (ARF18) gene associated with increased SW and SL. ARF18 encodes an auxin-response factor and shows inhibitory activity on downstream auxin genes. This 55-aa deletion prevents ARF18 from forming homodimers, in turn resulting in the loss of binding activity. Furthermore, reciprocal crossing has shown that this QTL affects SW by maternal effects. Transcription analysis has shown that ARF18 regulates cell growth in the silique wall by acting via an auxin-response pathway. Together, our results suggest that ARF18 regulates silique wall development and determines SW via maternal regulation. In addition, our study reveals the first (to our knowledge) QTL in rapeseed and may provide insights into gene cloning involving polyploid crops.
Biotechnological applications, especially transgenic plants, probably hold the most promise in augmenting agricultural production in the first decades of the next millennium. However, the application of these technologies to the agriculture of tropical regions where the largest areas of low productivity are located, and where they are most needed, remains a major challenge. In this paper, some of the important issues that need to be considered to ensure that plant biotechnology is effectively transferred to the developing world are discussed.
Malaria, a disease caused by protozoan parasites of genus Plasmodium, is one of the world's biggest scourges. Over two billion individuals reside in the malaria endemic areas and the disease affects 300-500 million people annually. As a result of malarial-infection, an estimated three million lives are lost annually, among them over one million children (majority under 5 years of age). The mortality due to malaria has increased because of the spread of drug-resistant strains of the parasite, the breakdown of health services in many affected areas, the interaction of the disease with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, and possibly the effects of climate change. Infants and young children with malaria often die from severe anemia, cerebral involvement,or prostration caused by overwhelming infection; many new borns die from complications of low birth weight caused by maternal malaria during pregnancy. The scarce economic resources and lack of communication, infrastructure and adequate means of travel in the endemic areas make it extremely difficult to implement traditional infection control measures (i.e., mosquito control, preventive anti-malarial drugs and nets). To make the matter worse, both malarial parasites and its insect vectors are increasingly becoming resistant to anti-malarial agents (chloroquine) and insecticides (both DDT and melathione and related chemicals), respectively. By conventional wisdom, the immune mechanisms responsible for protection against malaria will require a multiple of 10-15 antigen targets for proper protection against various stages of malarial infection. By standard vaccination protocols, such a large number of targets would not be appropriate to be used for vaccination as a single dose due to antigenic competition. It would be almost impossible to immunize over two billion individuals who live in malaria susceptible areas with several carefully crafted immunization schedules delivered 4-6 weeks apart in the form of two different antigens as a single dose. Besides, if immunization schedules could be arranged, the stability of vaccines carrying different malarial antigens, their transport, and the logistics of vaccination would be an almost impossible task to achieve under the current fiscal constraints. We are proposing a unique way to circumvent these logistical difficulties to deliver the malaria vaccines to every susceptible home at a small fraction of a cost. We hypothesize that the anti-malaria edible vaccines in transgenic tomato plants where different transgenic plants expressing different antigenic type(s). Immunizing individuals against 2-3 antigens and against each stage of the life cycle of the multistage parasites would be an efficient, inexpensive and safe way of vaccination. Tomatoes with varying sizes, shapes and colors carrying different antigens would make the vaccines easily identifiable by lay individuals.
Artemisinin is highly effective against multidrug-resistant strains of Plasmodium falciparum, the aetiological agent of the most severe form of malaria. However, a low level of accumulation of artemisinin in Artemisia annua is a major limitation for its production and delivery to malaria endemic areas of the world. While several strategies to enhance artemisinin have been extensively explored, enhancing storage capacity in trichome has not yet been considered. Therefore, trichome density was increased with the expression of β-glucosidase (bgl1) gene in A. annua through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgene (bgl1) integration and transcript were confirmed by molecular analysis. Trichome density increased up to 20% in leaves and 66% in flowers of BGL1 transgenic plants than Artemisia control plants. High-performance liquid chromatography, time of flight mass spectrometer data showed that artemisinin content increased up to 1.4% in leaf and 2.56% in flowers (per g DW), similar to the highest yields achieved so far through metabolic engineering. Artemisinin was enhanced up to five-fold in BGL1 transgenic flowers. This study opens the possibility of increasing artemisinin content by manipulating trichomes' density, which is a major reservoir of artemisinin. Combining biosynthetic pathway engineering with enhancing trichome density may further increase artemisinin yield in A. annua. Because oral feeding of Artemisia plant cells reduced parasitemia more efficiently than the purified drug, reduced drug resistance and cost of prohibitively expensive purification process, enhanced expression should play a key role in making this valuable drug affordable to treat malaria in a large global population that disproportionally impacts low-socioeconomic areas and underprivileged children.
Low bioavailable concentrations of the micronutrient zinc (Zn) limit agricultural production on 40% of cultivated land. Here, we demonstrate that plant acclimation to Zn deficiency involves systemic regulation. Physiological Zn deficiency of Arabidopsis thaliana shoots results in increased root transcript levels of the membrane transport protein-encoding genes METAL TRANSPORT PROTEIN2 (MTP2) and HEAVY METAL ATPASE2 (HMA2), which are unresponsive to the local Zn status of roots. MTP2 and HMA2 act additively in the partitioning of Zn from roots to shoots. Chimeric GFP fusion proteins of MTP2 complement an mtp2 mutant and localize in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane of the outer cell layers from elongation to root hair zone of lateral roots. MTP2 restores Zn tolerance in a hypersensitive yeast mutant. These results are consistent with cell-to-cell movement of Zn toward the root vasculature inside the ER-luminal continuum through the desmotubules of plasmodesmata, under Zn deficiency. The previously described Zn deficiency response comprises transcriptional activation of target genes, including ZINC-REGULATED TRANSPORTER IRON-REGULATED TRANSPORTER PROTEIN genes ZIP4 and ZIP9, by the F-group bZIP transcription factors bZIP19 and bZIP23. We show that ZIP4 and ZIP9 respond to the local Zn status in both roots and shoots, in contrast to the systemic regulation identified here. Our findings are relevant for crop management and improvement toward combating human nutritional Zn deficiency that affects 30 to 50% of the world's population.
Peanut (Arachis hypogaea L) is one of the widely cultivated and leading oilseed crops of the world and its yields are greatly affected by various biotic and abiotic stresses. Arachis diogoi, a wild relative of peanut, is an important source of genes for resistance against various stresses that affect peanut. In our previous study a thaumatin-like protein gene was found to be upregulated in a differential expression reverse transcription PCR (DDRT-PCR) study using the conidial spray of the late leaf spot pathogen, Phaeoisariopsis personata. In the present study, the corresponding full length cDNA was cloned using RACE-PCR and has been designated as AdTLP. It carried an open reading frame of 726 bp potentially capable of encoding a polypeptide of 241 amino acids with 16 conserved cysteine residues. The semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that the transcript level of AdTLP increased upon treatment with the late leaf spot pathogen of peanut, P. personata and various hormone treatments indicating its involvement in both, biotic and abiotic stresses. The antifungal activity of the purified recombinant protein was checked against different fungal pathogens, which showed enhanced anti-fungal activity compared to many other reported TLP proteins. The recombinant AdTLP-GFP fusion protein was found to be predominantly localized to extracellular spaces. Transgenic tobacco plants ectopically expressing AdTLP showed enhanced resistance to fungal pathogen, Rhizoctonia solani. The seedling assays showed enhanced tolerance of AdTLP transgenic plants against salt and oxidative stress. The transcript analysis of various defense related genes highlighted constitutively higher level expression of PR1a, PI-I and PI-II genes in transgenic plants. These results suggest that the AdTLP is a good candidate gene for enhancing stress resistance in crop plants.
Tuberculosis (TB) caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis continues to be one of the major public health problems in the world. The eventual control of this disease will require the development of a safe and effective vaccine. Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG), the only vaccine against TB, is not perfect for its limited ability to protect against the adult form of TB. Some improvements of TB vaccines relied to strengthening the immunogenicity and/or persistence of genetically modified recombinant BCG (rBCG) strain. Antigen 85B (Ag85B) and Mtb8.4 are importantly immunodominant antigens of M. tuberculosis, and both are very promising vaccine candidate molecules. MPT64(190-198), is presented to CD8(+) T cells during mycobacterial infections. In this study, we combined these above genes into one recombinant gene of ag85B-mpt64(190-198)-mtb8.4. Then we constructed the new rBCG containing this united gene. This rBCG can induce an increased Th1-type immune response in mice, characterized by an elevated level of interferon-gamma in antigen-stimulated splenocyte culture and a strong IgG2a antibody response. Also, it can elicit longer immune responses than BCG. The results show that this rBCG is a promising candidate for further study.
The requirement to monitor the presence of genetically modified organisms (GMO) in a variety of marked products has generated an increasing demand for reliable, rapid, and time and cost-effective analytical methods. Here we report an on-site method for rapid detection of cauliflower mosaic virus promoter (CaMV 35S), a common element present in most GMO, using cross-priming amplification (CPA) technology. Detection was achieved using a DNA-based contamination-proof strip biosensor. The limit of detection was 30 copies for the pBI121 plasmid containing the CaMV 35S gene. The certified reference sample of GM maize line MON810 was detectable even at the low relative mass concentration of 0.05%. The developed CPA method had high specificity for the CaMV 35S gene, as compared with other GM lines not containing this gene and non-GM products. The method was further validated using nine real-world samples, and the results were confirmed by real-time PCR analysis. Because of its simplicity, rapidity, and high sensitivity, this method of detecting the CaMV 35S gene has great commercial prospects for rapid GMO screening of high-consumption food and agriculture products.
The catalytic domain of Acidothermus cellulolyticus thermostable endoglucanase gene (encoding for endo-1,4-beta-glucanase enzyme or E1) was constitutively expressed in rice. Molecular analyses of T1 plants confirmed presence and expression of the transgene. The amount of E1 enzyme accounted for up to 4.9% of the plant total soluble proteins, and its accumulation had no apparent deleterious effects on plant growth and development. Approximately 22 and 30% of the cellulose of the Ammonia Fiber Explosion (AFEX)-pretreated rice and maize biomass respectively was converted into glucose using rice E1 heterologous enzyme. As rice is the major food crop of the world with minimal use for its straw, our results suggest a successful strategy for producing biologically active hydrolysis enzymes in rice to help generate alcohol fuel, by substituting the wasteful and polluting practice of rice straw burning with an environmentally friendly technology.
Salinity is one of the major abiotic stresses affecting plant productivity. Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.), an important and widespread crop in the world, is sensitive to moderate levels of salt in the soil. To generate tomato plants that can adapt to saline soil, AVP1, a vacuolar H(+)-pyrophosphatase gene from Arabidopsis thaliana, and PgNHX1, a vacuolar Na(+)/H(+) antiporter gene from Pennisetum glaucum, were co-expressed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. A sample of transformants was self-pollinated, and progeny were evaluated for salt tolerance in vitro and in vivo. It is reported here that co-expression of AVP1 and PgNHX1 confers enhanced salt tolerance to the transformed tomato compared with the AVP1 and PgNHX1 single gene transgenic plants and the wild-type. These transgenic plants grew well in the presence of 200 mM NaCl while wild-type plants exhibited chlorosis and died within 3 weeks. The transgenic line co-expressing AVP1 and PgNHX1 retained more chlorophyll and accumulated 1.4 times more proline as a response to stress than single gene transformants. Moreover, these transgenic plants accumulated a 1.5 times higher Na(+) content in their leaf tissue than the single gene transformants. The toxic effect of Na(+) accumulation in the cytosol is reduced by its sequestration into the vacuole. The physiological analysis of the transgenic lines clearly demonstrates that co-expression of AVP1 and PgNHX1 improved the osmoregulatory capacity of double transgenic lines by enhanced sequestration of ions into the vacuole by increasing the availability of protons and thus alleviating the toxic effect of Na(+).
Heavy metal pollution of agricultural soils is one of the most severe ecological problems in the world. Prosopis juliflora, a phreatophytic tree species, grows well in heavy metal laden industrial sites and is known to accumulate heavy metals. Heavy Metal ATPases (HMAs) are ATP driven heavy metal pumps that translocate heavy metals across biological membranes thus helping the plant in heavy metal tolerance and phytoremediation. In the present study we have isolated and characterized a novel 28.9 kDa heavy metal ATPase peptide (PjHMT) from P. juliflora which shows high similarity to the C-terminal region of P1B ATPase HMA1. It also shows the absence of the invariant signature sequence DKTGT, and the metal binding CPX motif but the presence of conserved regions like MVGEGINDAPAL (ATP binding consensus sequence), HEGGTLLVCLNS (metal binding domain) and MLTGD, GEGIND and HEGG motifs which play important roles in metal transport or ATP binding. PjHMT, was found to be upregulated under cadmium and zinc stress. Heterologous expression of PjHMT in yeast showed a higher accumulation and tolerance of heavy metals in yeast. Further, transgenic tobacco plants constitutively expressing PjHMT also showed increased accumulation and tolerance to cadmium. Thus, this study suggests that the transport peptide from P. juliflora may have an important role in Cd uptake and thus in phytoremediation.
Fusarium head blight occurs in cereals throughout the world and is especially important in humid growing regions. Fusarium head blight (FHB) has re-emerged as a major disease of wheat and barley in the U.S. and Canada since 1993. The primary causal agents of FHB, Fusarium graminearum and Fusarium culmorum, can produce deoxynivalenol (DON), a trichothecene mycotoxin that enhances disease severity and poses a health hazard to humans and monogastric animals. To reduce the effects of DON on wheat, we have introduced FsTRI101, a Fusarium sporotrichioides gene formerly known as TriR, into the regenerable cultivar Bobwhite. TRI101 encodes an enzyme that transfers an acetyl moiety to the C3 hydroxyl group of trichothecenes. Four different transgenic plants carrying the FsTRI101 gene were identified. Although expression levels varied among the four lines, all of them accumulated FsTRI101 transcripts in endosperm and glume. TRI101-encoded acetyltransferase activity was detected in endosperm extracts of a single plant that accumulated FsTRI101 mRNA. Greenhouse resistance tests indicated that the accumulation of FsTRI101-encoded acetyltransferase in this plant confers partial protection against the spread of F. graminearum in inoculated wheat heads (spikes).
A series of small-molecule microbicides has been developed for vaginal delivery to prevent heterosexual HIV transmission, but results from human clinical trials have been disappointing. Protein-based microbicides, such as HIV-specific monoclonal antibodies, have been considered as an alternative approach. Despite their promising safety profile and efficacy, the major drawback of such molecules is the economy of large-scale production in mammalian cells, the current system of choice. Here, we show that an alternative biomanufacturing platform is now available for one of the most promising anti-HIV antibodies (2G12). Our data show that the HIV-neutralization capability of the antibody is equal to or superior to that of the same antibody produced in CHO cells. We conclude that this protein production system may provide a means to achieve microbicide ingredient manufacture at costs that would allow product introduction and manufacture in the developing world.
Triclosan (TCS), 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (2,4,6-TCP) and 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) are the most prevalent chlorinated phenolic pollutants in aquatic environments. Our results showed LC50 and EC50 values of 0.51, 1.11, 2.45mg/L, and 0.36, 0.74, 1.53mg/L for TCS, 2,4,6-TCP and 2,4-DCP, respectively, to 120hpf zebrafish. The highest TCSD (the mixture of TCS, 2,4,6-TCP and 2,4-DCP) toxicity was observed at a TCS:2,4,6-TCP:2,4-DCP concentration ratio of 1:2:4. LC50 and EC50 values of TCSD mixtures for 120-hpf zebrafish were 2.28 and 1.16mg/L, respectively. Two toxicity assessment methods (Toxic Unit and Mixture Toxicity Index) indicated that TCSD interactions produced partly additive toxicity. TCSD exposure decreased zebrafish hatching rate and led to a series of malformations. Following alkaline phosphatase staining, a large area of vascular ablation was observed with almost complete disappearance of vascular branches and a smaller coverage range. Prominent reddening of the yolk sac and visceral mass after oil red O staining implied that TCSD exposure severely affected fat metabolism. Following acridine orange staining, cell death occurred in eyes while high TCSD concentrations (0.84mg/L) induced cardiovascular circulation dysfunction. Alcian blue staining increased the α angle between Meckel's cartilages and β angle between two ceratobranchial. Basihyal and palatoquadrate became shorter and developmental abnormality or defects occurred in the fifth ceratobranchial. Overall, these results provide a theoretical basis for systematically evaluating the combined toxicity of the prevalent chlorinated phenolic pollutants in real-world aquatic environments.
The chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is an emerging pathogen with widespread distribution in regions of Africa, India, and Asia that threatens to spread into temperate climates with the introduction of its major vector, Aedes albopictus. CHIKV causes a disease frequently misdiagnosed as dengue fever, with potentially life-threatening symptoms that can result in a longer-term debilitating arthritis. The increasing risk of spread from endemic regions via human travel and commerce and the current absence of a vaccine put a significant proportion of the world population at risk for this disease. In this study we designed and tested hammerhead ribozymes (hRzs) targeting CHIKV structural protein genes of the RNA genome as potential antivirals both at the cellular and in vivo level. We employed the CHIKV strain 181/25, which exhibits similar infectivity rates in both Vero cell cultures and mosquitoes. Virus suppression assay performed on transformed Vero cell clones of all seven hRzs demonstrated that all are effective at inhibiting CHIKV in Vero cells, with hRz #9 and #14 being the most effective. piggyBac transformation vectors were constructed using the Ae. aegypti t-RNA(val) Pol III promoted hRz #9 and #14 effector genes to establish a total of nine unique transgenic Higgs White Eye (HWE) Ae. aegypti lines. Following confirmation of transgene expression by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), comparative TCID50-IFA analysis, in situ Immuno-fluorescent Assays (IFA) and analysis of salivary CHIKV titers demonstrated effective suppression of virus replication at 7 dpi in heterozygous females of each of these transgenic lines compared with control HWE mosquitoes. This report provides a proof that appropriately engineered hRzs are powerful antiviral effector genes suitable for population replacement strategies.
Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is one of the major crops in the world and significant increase in grain yield is constant demand for breeders to meet the needs of a rapidly growing population. The size of grains is one of major components determining rice yield and a vital trait for domestication and breeding. To increase the grain size in rice, OsSPL16/qGW8 was mutagenized through CRISPR/Cas9, and proteomic analysis was performed to reveal variations triggered by mutations. More specifically, mutants were generated with two separate guide RNAs targeting recognition sites on opposite strands and genomic insertions and deletions were characterized. Mutations followed Mendelian inheritance and homozygous and heterozygous mutants lacking any T-DNA and off-target effects were screened. The mutant lines showed a significant increase in grain yield without any change in other agronomic traits in T0, T1, and T2 generations. Proteomic screening found a total of 44 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), out of which 33 and 11 were up and downregulated, respectively. Most of the DEPs related to pyruvate kinase, pyruvate dehydrogenase, and cell division and proliferation were upregulated in the mutant plants. Pathway analysis revealed that DEPs were enriched in the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, pyruvate metabolism, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, carbon metabolism, ubiquinone and other terpenoid-quinone biosynthesis, and citrate cycle. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis presented that most of the DEPs were involved in the pyruvate metabolic process and pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. Proteins related to pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 component subunit alpha-1 displayed higher interaction in the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Thus, the overall results revealed that CRISPR/Cas9-guided OsSPL16 mutations have the potential to boost the grain yield of rice. Additionally, global proteome analysis has broad applications for discovering molecular components and dynamic regulation underlying the targeted gene mutations.
To feed an estimated world population of 8.9 billion by 2050, strategies for increasing grain production must be developed. Several agronomically important traits for increasing yield, such as plant height, grain number, and leaf erectness, have recently been characterized in rice (Oryza sativa L.). These traits are regulated primarily by three phytohormones: gibberellins, cytokinins, and brassinosteroids. The control of biosynthesis and degradation of these key phytohormones is discussed in terms of its importance for normal plant growth. Genes involved in the biosynthesis and regulation of these phytohormones can be used to develop effective strategies to increase grain yield. Genetic manipulation of phytohormone-related gene expression is thus a practical strategy to generate high-yielding transgenic plants through the modification of levels and profile of endogenous phytohormones.
Chrysanthemums (Chrysanthemum×morifolium Ramat.) are an important cut-flower and potted plant crop in the horticultural industry world wide. Chrysanthemums express the flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase (F3'H) gene and thus accumulate anthocyanins derived from cyanidin in their inflorescences which appear pink/red. Delphinidin-based anthocyanins are lacking due to the deficiency of a flavonoid 3', 5'-hydroxylase (F3'5'H), and so violet/blue chrysanthemum flower colors are not found. In this study, together with optimization of transgene expression and selection of the host cultivars and gene source, F3'5'H genes have been successfully utilized to produce transgenic bluish chrysanthemums that accumulate delphinidin-based anthocyanins. HPLC analysis and feeding experiments with a delphinidin precursor identified 16 cultivars of chrysanthemums out of 75 that were predicted to turn bluish upon delphinidin accumulation. A selection of eight cultivars were successfully transformed with F3'5'H genes under the control of different promoters. A pansy F3'5'H gene under the control of a chalcone synthase promoter fragment from rose resulted in the effective diversion of the anthocyanin pathway to produce delphinidin in transgenic chrysanthemum flower petals. The resultant petal color was bluish, with 40% of total anthocyanidins attributed to delphinidin. Increased delphinidin levels (up to 80%) were further achieved by hairpin RNA interference-mediated silencing of the endogenous F3'H gene. The resulting petal colors were novel bluish hues, not possible by hybridization breeding. This is the first report of the production of anthocyanins derived from delphinidin in chrysanthemum petals leading to novel flower color.
Fire ants are one of the world's most damaging invasive pests, with few means for their effective control. Although ecologically friendly alternatives to chemical pesticides such as the insecticidal fungus Beauveria bassiana have been suggested for the control of fire ant populations, their use has been limited due to the low virulence of the fungus and the length of time it takes to kill its target. We present a means of increasing the virulence of the fungal agent by expressing a fire ant neuropeptide. Expression of the fire ant (Solenopsis invicta) pyrokinin β-neuropeptide (β-NP) by B. bassiana increased fungal virulence six-fold towards fire ants, decreased the LT(50), but did not affect virulence towards the lepidopteran, Galleria mellonella. Intriguingly, ants killed by the β-NP expressing fungus were disrupted in the removal of dead colony members, i.e. necrophoretic behavior. Furthermore, synthetic C-terminal amidated β-NP but not the non-amidated peptide had a dramatic effect on necrophoretic behavior. These data link chemical sensing of a specific peptide to a complex social behavior. Our results also confirm a new approach to insect control in which expression of host molecules in an insect pathogen can by exploited for target specific augmentation of virulence. The minimization of the development of potential insect resistance by our approach is discussed.
The detrimental effects of global warming on crop productivity threaten to reduce the world's food supply. Although plant responses to changes in temperature have been studied, genetic modification of crops to improve thermotolerance has had little success to date. Here we demonstrate that overexpression of the Arabidopsis thaliana receptor-like kinase ERECTA (ER) in Arabidopsis, rice and tomato confers thermotolerance independent of water loss and that Arabidopsis er mutants are hypersensitive to heat. A loss-of-function mutation of a rice ER homolog and reduced expression of a tomato ER allele decreased thermotolerance of both species. Transgenic tomato and rice lines overexpressing Arabidopsis ER showed improved heat tolerance in the greenhouse and in field tests at multiple locations in China during several seasons. Moreover, ER-overexpressing transgenic Arabidopsis, tomato and rice plants had increased biomass. Our findings could contribute to engineering or breeding thermotolerant crops with no growth penalty.
One of the most severe viral diseases of hill banana is caused by banana bunchy top virus (BBTV), a nanovirus transmitted by the aphid Pentalonia nigronervosa. In this study, we reported the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation on a highly valued hill banana cultivar Virupakshi (AAB) for resistance to BBTV disease. The target of the RNA interference (RNAi) is the rep gene, encoded by the BBTV-DNA1. In order to develop RNAi construct targeting the BBTV rep gene, the full-length rep gene of 870 bp was polymerase chain reaction amplified from BBTV infected hill banana sample DNA, cloned and confirmed by DNA sequencing. The partial rep gene fragment was cloned in sense and anti sense orientation in the RNAi intermediate vector, pSTARLING-A. After cloning in pSTARLING-A, the cloned RNAi gene cassette was released by NotI enzyme digestion and cloned into the NotI site of binary vector, pART27. Two different explants, embryogenic cells and embryogenic cell suspension derived microcalli were used for co-cultivation. Selection was done in presence of 100 mg/L kanamycin. In total, 143 putative transgenic hill banana lines were generated and established in green house condition. The presence of the transgenes was confirmed in the selected putative transgenic hill banana lines by PCR and reverse transcription PCR analyses. Transgenic hill banana plants expressing RNAi-BBTV rep were obtained and shown to resist infection by BBTV. The transformed plants are symptomless, and the replication of challenge BBTV almost completely suppressed. Hence, the RNAi mediating resistances were shown to be effective management of BBTV in hill banana.
Reliable animal models are invaluable for monitoring the extent of pollution in the aquatic environment. In this study, we demonstrated the potential of huORFZ, a novel transgenic zebrafish line that harbors a human upstream open reading frame of the chop gene fused with GFP reporter, as an animal model for monitoring environmental pollutants and stress-related cellular processes. When huORFZ embryos were kept under normal condition, no leaked GFP signal could be detected. When treated with hazardous chemicals, including heavy metals and endocrine-disrupting chemicals near their sublethal concentrations (LC50), huORFZ embryos exhibited different tissue-specific GFP expression patterns. For further analysis, copper (Cu2+), cadmium (Cd2+) and Chlorpyrifos were applied. Cu2+ triggered GFP responses in skin and muscle, whereas Cd2+ treatment triggered GFP responses in skin, olfactory epithelium and pronephric ducts. Moreover, fluorescence intensity, as exhibited by huORFZ embryos, was dose-dependent. After surviving treated embryos were returned to normal condition, survival rates, as well as TUNEL signals, returned to pretreatment levels with no significant morphological defects observed. Such results indicated the reversibility of treatment conditions used in this study, as long as embryos survived such conditions. Notably, GFP signals decreased along with recovery, suggesting that GFP signaling of huORFZ embryos likely reflected the overall physiological condition of the individual. To examine the performance of the huORFZ line under real-world conditions, we placed huORFZ embryos in different river water samples. We found that the huORFZ embryos correctly detected the presence of various kinds of pollutants. Based on these findings, we concluded that such uORFchop-based system can be integrated into a first-line water alarm system monitoring the discharge of hazardous pollutants.
Malaria is a tropical human disease, caused by protozoan parasites, wherein a significant number of the world's population is at risk. Annually, more than 219 million new cases are reported. Although there are prevention treatments, there are no highly and widely effective licensed anti-malarial vaccines available for use. Opportunities for utilization of plant-based vaccines as novel platforms for developing safe, reliable, and affordable treatments offer promise for developing such a vaccine against malaria. In this study, a Malchloroplast candidate vaccine was designed, composed of segments of AMA1 and MSP1 proteins, two epitopes of Plasmodium falciparum, along with a GK1 peptide from Taenia solium as adjuvant, and this was expressed in tobacco chloroplasts. Transplastomic tobacco lines were generated using biolistic transformation, and these were confirmed to carry the synthetic gene construct. Expression of the synthetic GK1 peptide was confirmed using RT-PCR and Western blots. Furthermore, the GK1 peptide was detected by HPLC at levels of up to 6 µg g-1 dry weight of tobacco leaf tissue. The plant-derived Malchloroplast candidate vaccine was subsequently tested in BALB/c female mice following subcutaneous administration, and was found to elicit specific humoral responses. Furthermore, components of this candidate vaccine were recognized by antibodies in Plasmodium falciparum malaria patients and were immunogenic in test mice. Thus, this study provided a 'proof of concept' for a promising plant-based candidate subunit vaccine against malaria.
β-carotene, a carotenoid that plays a key photo-protective role in plants is converted into zeaxanthin by β-carotene hydroxylase (CHY-β). Previous work showed that down-regulation of IbCHY-β by RNA interference (RNAi) results in higher levels of β-carotene and total carotenoids, as well as salt stress tolerance, in cultured transgenic sweetpotato cells. In this study, we introduced the RNAi-IbCHY-β construct into a white-fleshed sweetpotato cultivar (cv. Yulmi) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Among the 13 resultant transgenic sweetpotato plants (referred to as RC plants), three lines were selected for further characterization on the basis of IbCHY-β transcript levels. The RC plants had orange flesh, total carotenoid and β-carotene contents in storage roots were 2-fold and 16-fold higher, respectively, than those of non-transgenic (NT) plants. Unlike storage roots, total carotenoid and β-carotene levels in the leaves of RC plants were slightly increased compared to NT plants. The leaves of RC plants also exhibited tolerance to methyl viologen (MV)-mediated oxidative stress, which was associated with higher 2,2-diphenyl-1- picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical-scavenging activity. In addition, RC plants maintained higher levels of chlorophyll and higher photosystem II efficiency than NT plants after 250 mM NaCl stress. Yield of storage roots did not differ significantly between RC and NT plants. These observations suggest that RC plants might be useful as a nutritious and environmental stress-tolerant crop on marginal lands around the world.
Before a genetically modified (GM) crop can be commercialized it must pass through a rigorous regulatory process to verify that it is safe for human and animal consumption, and to the environment. One particular area of focus is the potential introduction of a known or cross-reactive allergen not previously present within the crop. The assessment of possible allergenicity uses the guidelines outlined by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and World Health Organization's (WHO) Codex Alimentarius Commission (Codex) to evaluate all newly expressed proteins. Some regulatory authorities have broadened the scope of the assessment to include all DNA reading frames between stop codons across the insert and spanning the insert/genomic DNA junctions. To investigate the utility of this bioinformatic assessment, all naturally occurring stop-to-stop frames in the non-transgenic genomes of maize, rice, and soybean, as well as the human genome, were compared against the AllergenOnline (www.allergenonline.org) database using the Codex criteria. We discovered thousands of frames that exceeded the Codex defined threshold for potential cross-reactivity suggesting that evaluating hypothetical ORFs (stop-to-stop frames) has questionable value for making decisions on the safety of GM crops.
An endophytic fungus was isolated from the roots of tomato (Solanum lycopersicum Mill) and identified as Penicillium janthinellum LK5. The culture filtrate (CF) of P. janthinellum significantly increased the shoot length of gibberellins (GAs) deficient mutant waito-c and normal Dongjin-beyo rice seedlings as compared to control. The CF of P. janthinellum contained GAs (GA3, GA4, GA7 and GA12). To assess endophyte-growth promoting and stress-tolerance potential, the CF along with the propagules of endophyte was applied to tomato-host and abscisic acid (ABA)-deficient mutant Sitiens plants under sodium chloride (NaCl) induced salinity stress. Sitiens plants had retarded growth under normal and salinity stress however its growth was much improved during P. janthinellum-association. The endophyte inoculation reduced the membrane injury by decreasing lipid peroxidation as compared to non-inoculated control under salinity. Endophyte-associated Sitiens plants have significantly higher catalase, peroxidase and glutathione activities as compared to control. Endophyte-infected host and Sitiens plants had low level of sodium ion toxicity and high calcium contents in its root as compared to control. P. janthinellum LK5 helped the Sitiens plants to synthesis significantly higher ABA and reduced the level of jasmonic acid to modulate stress responses. The results suggest that endophytes-association can resist salinity stress by producing gibberellins and activating defensive mechanisms of host and Sitiens plants to achieve improved growth.
The corn borer is a world-wide agricultural pest. In this study, a full-length neuropeptide F (npf) gene in Ostrinia furnacalis was sequenced and cloned from a cDNA library, in which the npf gene produces two splicing mRNA variants - npf1 and npf2 (with a 120 bp segment inserted into the npf1 sequence to generate npf2). A spatio-temporal expression analysis showed that the highest expression level of npf was in the midgut of 5th instar larvae (the gluttony period), and their npf expression and food consumption were significantly promoted after food deprivation for 6 h. When npf was knocked down by double-stranded RNA for NPF, larval food intake, weight and body size were effectively inhibited through changes of a biosynthesis and metabolism pathway; i.e. gene silencing of NPF causes decreases of total lipid and glycogen and increases of trehalose production. Moreover, we produced transgenic corn plants with stably expressed dsNPF. Results showed that O. furnacalis larvae fed on these transgenic leaves had lower food consumption and smaller body size compared to controls. These results indicate that NPF is important in the feeding control of O. furnacalis and valuable for production of potential transgenic corn.
The planting of transgenic crops expressing Bacillus thuringiensis endotoxins is widespread throughout the world; the prolific increase in their application exposes nontarget organisms to toxins designed to control pests. To date, studies have focused upon the effects of Bt endotoxins on specific herbivores and detritivores, without consideration of their persistence within arthropod food webs. Here, we report the first quantitative field evaluation of levels of Bt endotoxin within nontarget herbivores and the uptake by higher order arthropods. Antibody-based assays indicated significant quantities of detectable Cry1Ab endotoxin within nontarget herbivores which feed on transgenic corn (including the corn flea beetle, Chaetocnema pulicaria, Japanese beetle, Popillia japonica and southern corn rootworm, Diabrotica undecimpunctata howardi). Furthermore, arthropod predators (Coccinellidae, Araneae, and Nabidae) collected from these agroecosystems also contained significant quantities of Cry1Ab endotoxin indicating its movement into higher trophic levels. This uptake by predators is likely to have occurred by direct feeding on plant material (in predators which are facultatively phytophagous) or the consumption of arthropod prey which contained these proteins. These data indicate that long-term exposure to insecticidal toxins occurs in the field. These levels of exposure should therefore be considered during future risk assessments of transgenic crops to nontarget herbivores and arthropod predators.
Type I interferons (IFNs) inhibit viral replication and cell growth and enhance the immune response, and therefore have many clinical applications. IFN-alpha2b ranks third in world market use for a biopharmaceutical, behind only insulin and erythropoietin. The average annual cost of IFN-alpha2b for the treatment of hepatitis C infection is $26,000, and is therefore unavailable to the majority of patients in developing countries. Therefore, we expressed IFN-alpha2b in tobacco chloroplasts, and transgenic lines were grown in the field after obtaining United States Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) approval. Stable, site-specific integration of transgenes into chloroplast genomes and homoplasmy through several generations were confirmed. IFN-alpha2b levels reached up to 20% of total soluble protein, or 3 mg per gram of leaf (fresh weight). Transgenic IFN-alpha2b had similar in vitro biological activity to commercially produced PEG-Introntrade mark when tested for its ability to protect cells against cytopathic viral replication in the vesicular stomatitis virus cytopathic effect (VSV CPE) assay and to inhibit early-stage human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. The antitumour and immunomodulating properties of IFN-alpha2b were also seen in vivo. Chloroplast-derived IFN-alpha2b increased the expression of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) on splenocytes and the total number of natural killer (NK) cells. Finally, IFN-alpha2b purified from chloroplast transgenic lines (cpIFN-alpha2b) protected mice from a highly metastatic tumour line. This demonstration of high levels of expression of IFN-alpha2b, transgene containment and biological activity akin to that of commercial preparations of IFN-alpha2b facilitated the first field production of a plant-derived human blood protein, a critical step towards human clinical trials and commercialization.
Rice is a staple food for over half of the world's population, but it contains only low amounts of bioavailable micronutrients for human nutrition. Consequently, micronutrient deficiency is a widespread health problem among people who depend primarily on rice as their staple food. Iron deficiency anemia is one of the most serious forms of malnutrition. Biofortification of rice grains for increased iron content is an effective strategy to reduce iron deficiency. Unlike other grass species, rice takes up iron as Fe(II) via the IRON REGULATED TRANSPORTER (IRT) in addition to Fe(III)-phytosiderophore chelates. We expressed Arabidopsis IRT1 (AtIRT1) under control of the Medicago sativa EARLY NODULIN 12B promoter in our previously developed high-iron NFP rice lines expressing NICOTIANAMINE SYNTHASE (AtNAS1) and FERRITIN. Transgenic rice lines expressing AtIRT1 alone had significant increases in iron and combined with NAS and FERRITIN increased iron to 9.6 µg/g DW in the polished grains that is 2.2-fold higher as compared to NFP lines. The grains of AtIRT1 lines also accumulated more copper and zinc but not manganese. Our results demonstrate that the concerted expression of AtIRT1, AtNAS1 and PvFERRITIN synergistically increases iron in both polished and unpolished rice grains. AtIRT1 is therefore a valuable transporter for iron biofortification programs when used in combination with other genes encoding iron transporters and/or storage proteins.
Small RNAs are important regulators of plant development and resistance to viruses. To determine whether small RNAs mediate defense responses to herbivore attack, we silenced the expression of three RNA-directed RNA polymerases (RdRs) in the native tobacco Nicotiana attenuata by virus-induced gene silencing. Larvae of the leaf-chewing solanaceous specialist Manduca sexta grew faster on the RdR1-silenced plants than on empty vector (EV) controls; silencing RdR3 and 2 had little to no effect on larval performance. NaRdR1 transcripts were strongly elicited when puncture wounds were treated with M. sexta oral secretions (OS) to simulate herbivore attack, and with SA and JA, phytohormones that are elicited by herbivore attack. Stably silencing RdR1 by transforming N. attenuata with an inverted-repeat RdR1 construct produced plants (irRdR1) that grew normally but were highly susceptible to both M. sexta larvae and the cell-content-feeder Tupiocoris notatus. When irRdR1 lines were planted into N. attenuata's native habitat in the Great Basin Desert (Utah, USA), they were highly susceptible to herbivore attack, due to deficiencies in direct rather than indirect defenses. Microarray analysis revealed the downregulation of ADC and ODC genes, which supply substrates for synthesizing the chemical defense compound nicotine; irRdR1 lines failed to accumulate nicotine after attack. We conclude that RdR1 mediates herbivore resistance, and infer that the small RNAs produced by RdR1 are probably involved in orchestrating some of the rapid metabolic adjustments required for plants to survive herbivore attack in their natural habitats. The experiment highlights the value of carrying out 'real-world' tests of gene function early in the discovery process.
Bacterial leaf streak of rice (BLS) caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc) is a widely-spread disease in the main rice-producing areas of the world. Investigating the genes that play roles in rice-Xoc interactions helps us to understand the defense signaling pathway in rice. Here we report a differentially expressed protein gene (DEPG1), which regulates susceptibility to BLS. DEPG1 is a nucleotide-binding site (NBS)-leucine rich repeat (LRR) gene, and the deduced protein sequence of DEPG1 has approximately 64% identity with that of the disease resistance gene Pi37. Phylogenetic analysis of DEPG1 and the 18 characterized NBS-LRR genes revealed that DEPG1 is more closely related to Pi37. DEPG1 protein is located to the cytoplasm, which was confirmed by transient expression of DEPG1-GFP (green fluorescent protein) fusion construct in onion epidermal cells. Semi-quantitative PCR assays showed that DEPG1 is widely expressed in rice, and is preferentially expressed in internodes, leaf blades, leaf sheaths and flag leaves. Observation of cross sections of leaves from the transgenic plants with a DEPG1-promoter::glucuronidase (GUS) fusion gene revealed that DEPG1 is also highly expressed in mesophyll tissues where Xoc mainly colonizes. Additionally, Xoc negatively regulates expression of DEPG1 at the early stage of the pathogen infection, and so do the three defense-signal compounds including salicylic acid (SA), methyl jasmonate (MeJA) and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic-acid (ACC). Transgenic rice plants overexpressing DEPG1 exhibit enhanced susceptibility to Xoc compared to the wild-type controls. Moreover, enhanced susceptibility to Xoc may be mediated by inhibition of the expression of some SA biosynthesis-related genes and pathogenesis-related genes that may contribute to the disease resistance. Taken together, DEPG1 plays roles in the interactions between rice and BLS pathogen Xoc.
Maize (Zea mays L.), as one of the most important crops in the world, is deficient in lysine and tryptophan. Environmental conditions greatly impact plant growth, development and productivity. In this study, we used particle bombardment mediated co-transformation to obtain marker-free transgenic maize inbred X178 lines harboring a lysine-rich protein gene SBgLR from potato and an ethylene responsive factor (ERF) transcription factor gene, TSRF1, from tomato. Both of the target genes were successfully expressed and showed various expression levels in different transgenic lines. Analysis showed that the protein and lysine content in T1 transgenic maize seeds increased significantly. Compared to non-transformed maize, the protein and lysine content increased by 7.7% to 24.38% and 8.70% to 30.43%, respectively. Moreover, transgenic maize exhibited more tolerance to salt stress. When treated with 200 mM NaCl for 48 h, both non-transformed and transgenic plant leaves displayed wilting and losing green symptoms and dramatic increase of the free proline contents. However, the degree of control seedlings was much more serious than that of transgenic lines and much more increases of the free proline contents in the transgenic lines than that in the control seedlings were observed. Meanwhile, lower extent decreases of the chlorophyll contents were detected in the transgenic seedlings. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed to analyze the expression of ten stress-related genes, including stress responsive transcription factor genes, ZmMYB59 and ZmMYC1, proline synthesis related genes, ZmP5CS1 and ZmP5CS2, photosynthesis-related genes, ZmELIP, ZmPSI-N, ZmOEE, Zmrbcs and ZmPLAS, and one ABA biosynthesis related gene, ZmSDR. The results showed that with the exception of ZmP5CS1 and ZmP5CS2 in line 9-10 and 19-11, ZmMYC1 in line 19-11 and ZmSDR in line 19-11, the expression of other stress-related genes were inhibited in transgenic lines under normal conditions. After salt treatment, the expressions of the ten stress-related genes were significantly induced in both wild-type (WT) and transgenic lines. However, compared to WT, the increases of ZmP5CS1 in all these three transgenic lines and ZmP5CS2 in line 9-10 were less than WT plants. This study provides an effective approach of maize genetic engineering for improved nutritive quality and salt tolerance.
The micronutrient content of most cereal grains is low and responsible for malnutrition deficiencies in millions of people who rely on grains as their primary food source. Any strategy that can increase the micronutrient content of grain will have significant benefits to world health. We identified a gene from barley encoding a cell wall protein with multiple histidine (His)-rich motifs interspersed with short arabinogalactan-protein (AGP) domains and have called it Hordeum vulgare His-rich AGP (HvHRA1). Sequence analysis shows that His-rich AGPs are rare in plants and that the number of His-rich and AGP domains differ between cereals and dicots. The barley and wheat encoded proteins have more than 13 His-rich domains, whereas the putative rice orthologue has only 5 His-rich regions. His-rich motifs are well-established metal-binding motifs; therefore, we developed transgenic (Tx) rice plants that constitutively overexpress barley HvHRA1. There was no significant effect on plant growth or grain yield in Tx plants. Purification of AGPs from wild-type and Tx plants showed that only Tx plants contained detectable levels of a His-rich AGP. Calcein assay shows that the AGP fraction from Tx plants had increased binding affinity for Cu(2+) . Micronutrient analysis of brown and white rice showed that the grain nutrient yield for Fe, Zn and Cu was higher in two Tx lines compared to their respective nulls, although the differences were not statistically significant. This approach highlights the potential of the plant apoplast (cell wall) for storage of key nutrients through overexpression of genes for metal-binding proteins.
Abiotic stresses such as extreme temperatures, water-deficit and salinity negatively affect plant growth and development, and cause significant yield losses. It was previously shown that co-overexpression of the Arabidopsis vacuolar pyrophosphatase gene AVP1 and the rice SUMO E3 ligase gene OsSIZ1 in Arabidopsis significantly increased tolerance to multiple abiotic stresses and led to increased seed yield for plants grown under single or multiple abiotic stress conditions. It was hypothesized that there might be synergistic effects between AVP1 overexpression and OsSIZ1 overexpression, which could lead to substantially increased yields if these two genes are co-overexpressed in real crops. To test this hypothesis, AVP1 and OsSIZ1 were co-overexpressed in cotton, and the impact of OsSIZ1/AVP1 co-overexpression on cotton's performance under normal growth and multiple stress conditions were analysed. It was found that OsSIZ1/AVP1 co-overexpressing plants performed significantly better than AVP1-overexpressing, OsSIZ1-overexpressing and wild-type cotton plants under single, as well as under multiple stress conditions in laboratory and field conditions. Two field studies showed that OsSIZ1/AVP1 co-overexpressing plants produced 133% and 81% more fibre than wild-type cotton in the dryland conditions of West Texas. This research illustrates that co-overexpression of AVP1 and OsSIZ1 is a viable strategy for engineering abiotic stress-tolerant crops and could substantially improve crop yields in low input or marginal environments, providing a solution for food security for countries in arid and semiarid regions of the world.
Iron deficiency is one of the most prevalent nutrient deficiencies in the world. A sustainable solution to dietary iron deficiency may be achieved in part by increasing bioavailable iron in seeds used for foods such as rice. Because ferritin is used as a natural source of iron in the early development of humans, other animals and plants, the bioavailability of iron in rice seeds, provided in amounts equal to ferrous sulfate, and in transgenic rice with ferritin was tested in iron-deficient rats. A standard hemoglobin (Hb) repletion bioassay was used with rats made anemic followed by complete diets containing equivalent amounts of iron as FeSO(4) or one of three different bioengineered rice varieties (Kitaake and two transgenic derivatives with ferritin targeted to the seed, FK11 and FK22). Rice diets were as effective as the FeSO(4) diet in replenishing hematocrit, Hb concentration and liver iron concentrations. These data suggest that Mendelian and biotechnological approaches to manipulating ferritin expression of seed iron in rice may contribute to a sustainable solution to global problems of iron deficiency.
During a Joint Society of Toxicologic Pathology (STP)/International Federation of Societies of Toxicologic Pathologists (IFSTP) International Symposium, held between June 24 and 28, 2001, in Orlando, FL, USA, there was a session entitled as "Genetically Modified Foods: Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment". The purpose of this session was to present and discuss the current situations in the US, European Union and Japan for the public concerns, safety assessments and regulations on genetically modified (GM) products used as foods or food ingredients. Assuming the wide and fast growing of the usage of GM products, it is the duty for us as toxicologic pathologists, to supply reliable data on their safety and possible risks or hazards as a world-wide basis to not only governments or regulatory agencies but also general public of our countries.
Background:                       Rice is staple food for more than half of the world's population including two billion Asians, who obtain 60-70% of their energy intake from rice and its derivatives. To meet the growing demand from human population, rice varieties with higher yield potential and greater yield stability need to be developed. The favourable alleles for yield and yield contributing traits are distributed among two subspecies i.e., indica and japonica of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.). Identification of novel favourable alleles in indica/japonica will pave way to marker-assisted mobilization of these alleles in to a genetic background to break genetic barriers to yield.                  Results:                       A new plant type (NPT) based mapping population of 310 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) was used to map novel genomic regions and QTL hotspots influencing yield and eleven yield component traits. We identified major quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for days to 50% flowering (R2 = 25%, LOD = 14.3), panicles per plant (R2 = 19%, LOD = 9.74), flag leaf length (R2 = 22%, LOD = 3.05), flag leaf width (R2 = 53%, LOD = 46.5), spikelets per panicle (R2 = 16%, LOD = 13.8), filled grains per panicle (R2 = 22%, LOD = 15.3), percent spikelet sterility (R2 = 18%, LOD = 14.24), thousand grain weight (R2 = 25%, LOD = 12.9) and spikelet setting density (R2 = 23%, LOD = 15) expressing over two or more locations by using composite interval mapping. The phenotypic variation (R2) ranged from 8 to 53% for eleven QTLs expressing across all three locations. 19 novel QTLs were contributed by the NPT parent, Pusa1266. 15 QTL hotpots on eight chromosomes were identified for the correlated traits. Six epistatic QTLs effecting five traits at two locations were identified. A marker interval (RM3276-RM5709) on chromosome 4 harboring major QTLs for four traits was identified.                  Conclusions:                       The present study reveals that favourable alleles for yield and yield contributing traits were distributed among two subspecies of rice and QTLs were co-localized in different genomic regions. QTL hotspots will be useful for understanding the common genetic control mechanism of the co-localized traits and selection for beneficial allele at these loci will result in a cumulative increase in yield due to the integrative positive effect of various QTLs. The information generated in the present study will be useful to fine map and to identify the genes underlying major robust QTLs and to transfer all favourable QTLs to one genetic background to break genetic barriers to yield for sustained food security.
In this study we show that expression of the Arabidopsis ABF4 gene in potato increases tuber yield under normal and abiotic stress conditions, improves storage capability and processing quality of the tubers, and enhances salt and drought tolerance. Potato is the third most important food crop in the world. Potato plants are susceptible to salinity and drought, which negatively affect crop yield, tuber quality and market value. The development of new varieties with higher yields and increased tolerance to adverse environmental conditions is a main objective in potato breeding. In addition, tubers suffer from undesirable sprouting during storage that leads to major quality losses; therefore, the control of tuber sprouting is of considerable economic importance. ABF (ABRE-binding factor) proteins are bZIP transcription factors that regulate abscisic acid signaling during abiotic stress. ABF proteins also play an important role in the tuberization induction. We developed transgenic potato plants constitutively expressing the Arabidopsis ABF4 gene (35S::ABF4). In this study, we evaluated the performance of 35S::ABF4 plants grown in soil, determining different parameters related to tuber yield, tuber quality (carbohydrates content and sprouting behavior) and tolerance to salt and drought stress. Besides enhancing salt stress and drought tolerance, constitutive expression of ABF4 increases tuber yield under normal and stress conditions, enhances storage capability and improves the processing quality of the tubers.
Background:                       Seed germination and seedling establishment are two of the most critical phases in plant development. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the effect of phosphorus on seed germination and post-germinated growth of oilseed rape are unclear so far. Here, we report the role of BnPHT1;4 in seed germination and early seedling development of Brassica napus.                  Results:                       Our results show that BnPHT1;4 is preferentially expressed in cotyledons of early developing seedlings. Overexpression of BnPHT1;4 in oilseed rape promoted seed germination and seedling growth. Expression levels of the genes related to ABA and GA biosynthesis and signaling were significantly altered in BnPHT1;4 transgenic seedlings. Consequently, active GA level was up-regulated, whereas ABA content was down-regulated in BnPHT1;4 transgenic seedlings. Furthermore, exogenous GA could promote seed germination of wild type, while exogenous ABA could partially recover the advanced-germination phenotype of BnPHT1;4 transgenic seeds. Total phosphorus content in cotyledons of the transgenic seedlings was decreased more rapidly than that in wild type when Pi was supplied or deficient, and Pi contents in shoots and roots of the BnPHT1;4 transgenic plants were higher than those in wild type under high and low Pi conditions.                  Conclusions:                       Our data suggest that the high-affinity transporter BnPHT1;4 is involved in phosphorus acquisition and mobilization for facilitating seed germination and seedling growth of Brassica napus by modulating ABA and GA biosynthesis.
Wheat is an important crop in the world. But most of the cultivars are salt sensitive, and often adversely affected by salt stress. WRKY transcription factors play a major role in plant responses to salt stress, but the effective salinity regulatory WRKYs identified in bread wheat are limited and the mechanism of salt stress tolerance is also not well explored. Here, we identified a salt (NaCl) induced class II WRKY transcription factor TaWRKY93. Its transcript level was strongly induced by salt (NaCl) and exogenous abscisic acid (ABA). Over-expression of TaWRKY93 in Arabidopsis thaliana enhanced salt (NaCl), drought, low temperature and osmotic (mannitol) stress tolerance, mainly demonstrated by transgenic plants forming longer primary roots or more lateral roots on MS plates supplemented with NaCl and mannitol individually, higher survival rate under drought and low temperature stress. Further, transgenic plants maintained a more proline content, higher relative water content and less electrolyte leakage than the wild type plants. The transcript abundance of a series of abiotic stress-related genes was up-regulated in the TaWRKY93 transgenic plants. In summary, TaWRKY93 is a new positive regulator of abiotic stress, it may increase salinity, drought and low temperature stress tolerance through enhancing osmotic adjustment, maintaining membrane stability and increasing transcription of stress related genes, and contribute to the superior agricultural traits of SR3 through promoting root development. It can be used as a candidate gene for wheat transgenic engineering breeding against abiotic stress.
Mammalian ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters involved in the multidrug-resistance of cancer cells can efflux cytotoxic compounds that show a wide variety of chemical structures and biological activities. Human multidrug resistance-associated protein (hMRP1) is one of the most intensively studied ABC transporters and many substrates have been identified, including both organic and inorganic compounds. In an attempt at novel 'transport engineering' using hMRP1 as a molecular pump, we established transgenic tobacco plants that showed clear resistance to cadmium and daunorubicin, although they were not resistant to etoposide, another known substrate of hMRP1. When expressed in tobacco cells, hMRP1 protein was localized at vacuolar membrane, while members of the MRP family are localized at plasma membrane in mammalian cells to reduce the cellular accumulation of various drugs. Thus, the hMRP1-expressing tobacco cells were able to take up these substrates across the tonoplast and sequestrate them in the vacuolar matrix. These results suggest that it may be possible to use the transgenic tobacco in phytoremediation, where a single transformation with an ABC transporter with broad substrate specificity should be effective for extracting various environmental pollutants including both organic and inorganic compounds, and accumulate them in the plant body. This should be advantageous for the remediation of a complex polluted environment, which is commonly found in the real world.
Background:                       Although Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) maize has been widely adopted in diverse regions around the world, relatively little is known about the susceptibility and behavioral response of certain insect pests to Bt maize in countries where this maize is not currently cultivated. These are important factors to consider as management plans are developed. These factors were investigated for Agrotis ipsilon, a global pest of maize, with Cry1F and Cry34Ab1/Cry35Ab1 maize.                  Results:                       Agrotis ipsilon demonstrated an initial, post-ingestive aversive response to Cry1F maize. Development and mortality were also affected - survival on Cry1F maize tissue was 40% and weight gain of survivors of Cry1F exposure was significantly reduced. A post-ingestive aversive response was also seen for Cry34Ab1/Cry35Ab1 maize; however, longer-term feeding, weight gain and survival were not affected.                  Conclusion:                       Agrotis ipsilon showed aversion to both Bt treatments. Aversion to Cry34Ab1/Cry35Ab1 maize was unexpected because these proteins have no known insecticidal effect against Lepidoptera; however, results confirm that this aversion was temporary and did not affect growth or development. The Cry1F results suggest that A. ipsilon will abandon Cry1F maize in the field before any selection for resistance. These data support the use of refuge to delay Cry1F resistance development in A. ipsilon populations.
The Old World bollworm, Helicoverpa armigera (Hübner), was recently introduced into Brazil, where it has caused extensive damage to cotton and soybean crops. MON 87701 × MON 89788 soybean, which expresses the Bt protein Cry1Ac, was recently deployed in Brazil, providing high levels of control against H. armigera. To assess the risk of resistance to the Cry1Ac protein expressed by MON 87701 × MON 89788 soybean in Brazil, we conducted studies to evaluate the baseline susceptibility of H. armigera to Cry1Ac, in planta efficacy including the assessment of the high-dose criterion, and the initial resistance allele frequency based on an F2 screen. The mean Cry1Ac lethal concentration (LC50) ranged from 0.11 to 1.82 μg·mL-1 of diet among all H. armigera field populations collected from crop seasons 2013/14 to 2014/15, which indicated about 16.5-fold variation. MON 87701 × MON 89788 soybean exhibited a high level of efficacy against H. armigera and most likely met the high dose criterion against this target species in leaf tissue dilution bioassays up to 50 times. A total of 212 F2 family lines of H. armigera were established from field collections sampled from seven locations across Brazil and were screened for the presence of MON 87701 × MON 89788 soybean resistance alleles. None of the 212 families survived on MON 87701 × MON 89788 soybean leaf tissue (estimated allele frequency = 0.0011). The responses of H. armigera to Cry1Ac protein, high susceptibility to MON 87701 × MON 89788 soybean, and low frequency of resistance alleles across the main soybean-producing regions support the assumptions of a high-dose/refuge strategy. However, maintenance of reasonable compliance with the refuge recommendation will be essential to delay the evolution of resistance in H. armigera to MON 87701 × MON 89788 soybean in Brazil.
Background:                       Heterorhabditis bacteriophora is applied throughout the world for the biological control of insects and is an animal model to study interspecies interactions, e.g. mutualism, parasitism and vector-borne disease. H. bacteriophora nematodes are mutually associated with the insect pathogen, Photorhabdus luminescens. The developmentally arrested infective juvenile (IJ) stage nematode (vector) specifically transmits Photorhabdus luminescens bacteria (pathogen) in its gut mucosa to the haemocoel of insects (host). The nematode vector and pathogen alone are not known to cause insect disease. RNA interference is an excellent reverse genetic tool to study gene function in C. elegans, and it would be useful in H. bacteriophora to exploit the H. bacteriophora genome project, currently in progress.                  Results:                       Soaking L1 stage H. bacteriophora with seven dsRNAs of genes whose C. elegans orthologs had severe RNAi phenotypes resulted in highly penetrant and obvious developmental and reproductive abnormalities. The efficacy of postembryonic double strand RNA interference (RNAi) was evident by abnormal gonad morphology and sterility of adult H. bacteriophora and C. elegans presumable due to defects in germ cell proliferation and gonad development. The penetrance of RNAi phenotypes in H. bacteriophora was high for five genes (87-100%; Hba-cct-2, Hba-daf-21, Hba-icd-1; Hba-nol-5, and Hba-W01G7.3) and moderate for two genes (usually 30-50%; Hba-rack-1 and Hba-arf-1). RNAi of three additional C. elegans orthologs for which RNAi phenotypes were not previously detected in C. elegans, also did not result in any apparent phenotypes in H. bacteriophora. Specific and severe reduction in transcript levels in RNAi treated L1s was determined by quantitative real-time RT-PCR. These results suggest that postembryonic RNAi by soaking is potent and specific.                  Conclusion:                       Although RNAi is conserved in animals and plants, RNAi using long dsRNA is not. These results demonstrate that RNAi can be used effectively in H. bacteriophora and can be applied for analyses of nematode genes involved in symbiosis and parasitism. It is likely that RNAi will be an important tool for functional genomics utilizing the high quality draft H. bacteriophora genome sequence.
Wheat is an important staple that acts as a primary source of dietary energy, protein, and essential micronutrients such as iron (Fe) and zinc (Zn) for the world's population. Approximately two billion people suffer from micronutrient deficiency, thus breeders have crossed high Zn progenitors such as synthetic hexaploid wheat, T. dicoccum, T. spelta, and landraces to generate wheat varieties with competitive yield and enhanced grain Zn that are being adopted by farmers in South Asia. Here we report a genome-wide association study (GWAS) using the wheat Illumina iSelect 90 K Infinitum SNP array to characterize grain Zn concentrations in 330 bread wheat lines. Grain Zn phenotype of this HarvestPlus Association Mapping (HPAM) panel was evaluated across a range of environments in India and Mexico. GWAS analysis revealed 39 marker-trait associations for grain Zn. Two larger effect QTL regions were found on chromosomes 2 and 7. Candidate genes (among them zinc finger motif of transcription-factors and metal-ion binding genes) were associated with the QTL. The linked markers and associated candidate genes identified in this study are being validated in new biparental mapping populations for marker-assisted breeding.
Tuberculosis (TB) caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis is one of the leading fatal infectious diseases. The development of TB vaccines has been recognized as a major public health priority by the World Health Organization. In this study, three candidate antigens, ESAT-6 (6 kDa early secretory antigenic target) and Mtb72F (a fusion polyprotein from two TB antigens, Mtb32 and Mtb39) fused with cholera toxin B-subunit (CTB) and LipY (a cell wall protein) were expressed in tobacco and/or lettuce chloroplasts to facilitate bioencapsulation/oral delivery. Site-specific transgene integration into the chloroplast genome was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. In transplastomic leaves, CTB fusion proteins existed in soluble monomeric or multimeric forms of expected sizes and their expression levels varied depending upon the developmental stage and time of leaf harvest, with the highest-level of accumulation in mature leaves harvested at 6PM. The CTB-ESAT6 and CTB-Mtb72F expression levels reached up to 7.5% and 1.2% of total soluble protein respectively in mature tobacco leaves. Transplastomic CTB-ESAT6 lettuce plants accumulated up to 0.75% of total leaf protein. Western blot analysis of lyophilized lettuce leaves stored at room temperature for up to six months showed that the CTB-ESAT6 fusion protein was stable and preserved proper folding, disulfide bonds and assembly into pentamers for prolonged periods. Also, antigen concentration per gram of leaf tissue was increased 22 fold after lyophilization. Hemolysis assay with purified CTB-ESAT6 protein showed partial hemolysis of red blood cells and confirmed functionality of the ESAT-6 antigen. GM1-binding assay demonstrated that the CTB-ESAT6 fusion protein formed pentamers to bind with the GM1-ganglioside receptor. The expression of functional Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens in transplastomic plants should facilitate development of a cost-effective and orally deliverable TB booster vaccine with potential for long-term storage at room temperature. To our knowledge, this is the first report of expression of TB vaccine antigens in chloroplasts.
The adoption of cotton producing insecticidal proteins of Bacillus thuringiensis, commonly referred to as Bt cotton, around the world has proven to be beneficial for growers and the environment. The effectiveness of this important genetically-modified crop can be jeopardized by the development of resistance to Bt cotton by pests it is meant to control, with the possibility that this phenomenon could develop in one country and spread to another by means of insect migration. To preserve the effectiveness of this agricultural biotechnology, regulatory agencies have developed plans to mitigate the development of resistance, and research institutions constantly monitor for shifts in Bt-susceptibility in important pests. If Bt-resistance is detected, this finding needs to be corroborated by an independent laboratory according to current regulatory requirements; a process that presents numerous challenges. We investigated the biological activity of Bt-incorporated diet on Helicoverpa virescens L. after it was stored for several days at different temperatures. Diet stored up to nine days at different temperatures (-14 to 27 degrees C) produced the same biological effect on H. virescens as freshly-prepared diet. Elevating the temperature of Bt stock solution to 76 degrees C as compared to 26 degrees C yielded significantly higher reading of apparent Cry1Ac concentration from MVP II, but not enough to elicit a significant biological response when these stock solutions were incorporated into insect artificial diet. These findings are important particularly when the confirmation of resistance is done at a distant location, such as Mexico, or when diet is shared between laboratories, and must be stored for later use, as in the case of international collaboration.
Improving nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) has been a focal point for crop growth and yield throughout the world. Glutamine synthetase (GS), which plays a fundamental role in N metabolism, has been exploited to improve crop NUE. However, increased GS activity in rice by overexpressing its own GS genes hasn't shown superior plant productivity. Here, transgenic rice plants with increased GS activity by overexpressing TaGS1 were analyzed under field and culture conditions at two N rates. Transgenic expression of TaGS1 significantly increases GS activity in leaves, junctions and roots of rice plants relative to wide-type plants. When rice plants grown under consecutive field trials with N rates of 60 and 240 kg/ha, three transgenic lines have higher grain yield than wild-type plants, with increment of 15%-22% in T2 generation and with that of 28%-36% in T3 generation, respectively. And increased panicle numbers (effective tiller numbers) mainly contribute to the advantage of grain yield in transgenic plants. Analysis of N use-related traits shows that transgenic plants with enhanced GS activity promote root capacity to obtain N, N accumulation during growth stages and N remobilization to grains, ultimately conferring 31%-40% improvement of NUE relative to wild-type rice plants.
Purified plasma derived human albumin has been available as a therapeutic product since World War II. However, cost effective recombinant production of albumin has been challenging due to the amount needed and the complex folding pattern of the protein. In an effort to provide an abundant source of recombinant albumin, a herd of transgenic cows expressing high levels of rhA in their milk was generated. Expression cassettes efficiently targeting the secretion of human albumin to the lactating mammary gland were obtained and tested in transgenic mice. A high expressing transgene was transfected in primary bovine cell lines to produce karyoplasts for use in a somatic cell nuclear transfer program. Founder transgenic cows were produced from four independent cell lines. Expression levels varying from 1-2 g/l to more than 40 g/l of correctly folded albumin were observed. The animals expressing the highest levels of rhA exhibited shortened lactation whereas cows yielding 1-2 g/l had normal milk production. This herd of transgenic cattle is an easily scalable and well characterized source of rhA for biomedical uses.
Cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) fibre is an important natural raw material for textile industry in the world. Understanding the molecular mechanism of fibre development is important for the development of future cotton varieties with superior fibre quality. In this study, overexpression of Gh14-3-3L in cotton promoted fibre elongation, leading to an increase in mature fibre length. In contrast, suppression of expression of Gh14-3-3L, Gh14-3-3e and Gh14-3-3h in cotton slowed down fibre initiation and elongation. As a result, the mature fibres of the Gh14-3-3 RNAi transgenic plants were significantly shorter than those of wild type. This 'short fibre' phenotype of the 14-3-3 RNAi cotton could be partially rescued by application of 2,4-epibrassinolide (BL). Expression levels of the BR-related and fibre-related genes were altered in the Gh14-3-3 transgenic fibres. Furthermore, we identified Gh14-3-3 interacting proteins (including GhBZR1) in cotton. Site mutation assay revealed that Ser163 in GhBZR1 and Lys51/56/53 in Gh14-3-3L/e/h were required for Gh14-3-3-GhBZR1 interaction. Nuclear localization of GhBZR1 protein was induced by BR, and phosphorylation of GhBZR1 by GhBIN2 kinase was helpful for its binding to Gh14-3-3 proteins. Additionally, 14-3-3-regulated GhBZR1 protein may directly bind to GhXTH1 and GhEXP promoters to regulate gene expression for responding rapid fibre elongation. These results suggested that Gh14-3-3 proteins may be involved in regulating fibre initiation and elongation through their interacting with GhBZR1 to modulate BR signalling. Thus, our study provides the candidate intrinsic genes for improving fibre yield and quality by genetic manipulation.
Sesame (Sesamum indicum L.) is an important oil crop in many tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world, yet has received little attention in applying modern biotechnology in its improvement due to regeneration and transformation difficulties. Here within, we report the successful production of transgenic fertile plants of sesame (cv Sohag 1), after screening several cultivars. Agrobacterium tumefaciens- carrying the pBI121 plasmid {neomycin phosphotransferase gene (NPTII) and a β-glucuronidase gene (GUS)} was used in all experiments. Recovery of transgenic sesame shoots was achieved using shoot induction medium (Murashige and Skoog MS basal salt mixture + Gamborg's B5 vitamins + 2.0 mg/l BA + 1.0 mg/l IAA + 5.0 mg/l AgNO3 + 30.0 g/l sucrose + 7.0 g/l agar + 200 mg/l cefotaxime and 25 mg/l kanamycin) and shoots were rooted on MS medium + B5 vitamins + 1.0 mg/l IAA + 10.0 g/l sucrose and 7.0 g/l agar. Rooted shoots were transplanted into soil and grown to maturity in greenhouse. Incorporation and expression of the GUS gene into T0 sesame plants was confirmed using polymerase chain reaction (PCR), reverse transcriptase-PCR (RT-PCR) and GUS histochemical assay. Several factors were found to be important for regeneration and transformation in sesame. The most effective were plant genotype and the addition of AgNO3 for successful recovery of sesame shoots. Co-cultivation time and optical density of the Agrobacterium were also critical for sesame transformation. This work is an attempt to open the door for further genetic improvement of sesame using important agronomic traits.
Understanding the mechanisms regulating root development under drought conditions is an important question for plant biology and world agriculture. We examine the effect of osmotic stress on abscisic acid (ABA), cytokinin and ethylene responses and how they mediate auxin transport, distribution and root growth through effects on PIN proteins. We integrate experimental data to construct hormonal crosstalk networks to formulate a systems view of root growth regulation by multiple hormones. Experimental analysis shows: that ABA-dependent and ABA-independent stress responses increase under osmotic stress, but cytokinin responses are only slightly reduced; inhibition of root growth under osmotic stress does not require ethylene signalling, but auxin can rescue root growth and meristem size; osmotic stress modulates auxin transporter levels and localization, reducing root auxin concentrations; PIN1 levels are reduced under stress in an ABA-dependent manner, overriding ethylene effects; and the interplay among ABA, ethylene, cytokinin and auxin is tissue-specific, as evidenced by differential responses of PIN1 and PIN2 to osmotic stress. Combining experimental analysis with network construction reveals that ABA regulates root growth under osmotic stress conditions via an interacting hormonal network with cytokinin, ethylene and auxin.
Background:                       Rice is the primary source of food for billions of people in developing countries, yet the commonly consumed polished grain contains insufficient levels of the key micronutrients iron (Fe), zinc (Zn) and Vitamin A to meet daily dietary requirements. Experts estimate that a rice-based diet should contain 14.5 µg g(-1) Fe in endosperm, the main constituent of polished grain, but breeding programs have failed to achieve even half of that value. Transgenic efforts to increase the Fe concentration of rice endosperm include expression of ferritin genes, nicotianamine synthase genes (NAS) or ferritin in conjunction with NAS genes, with results ranging from two-fold increases via single-gene approaches to six-fold increases via multi-gene approaches, yet no approach has reported 14.5 µg g(-1) Fe in endosperm.                  Methodology/principal findings:                       Three populations of rice were generated to constitutively overexpress OsNAS1, OsNAS2 or OsNAS3, respectively. Nicotianamine, Fe and Zn concentrations were significantly increased in unpolished grain of all three of the overexpression populations, relative to controls, with the highest concentrations in the OsNAS2 and OsNAS3 overexpression populations. Selected lines from each population had at least 10 µg g(-1) Fe in polished grain and two OsNAS2 overexpression lines had 14 and 19 µg g(-1) Fe in polished grain, representing up to four-fold increases in Fe concentration. Two-fold increases of Zn concentration were also observed in the OsNAS2 population. Synchrotron X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy demonstrated that OsNAS2 overexpression leads to significant enrichment of Fe and Zn in phosphorus-free regions of rice endosperm.                  Conclusions:                       The OsNAS genes, particularly OsNAS2, show enormous potential for Fe and Zn biofortification of rice endosperm. The results demonstrate that rice cultivars overexpressing single rice OsNAS genes could provide a sustainable and genetically simple solution to Fe and Zn deficiency disorders affecting billions of people throughout the world.
Background:                       Aluminum is considered the most limiting factor for plant productivity in acidic soils, which cover large areas of the world's potential arable lands. The inhibition of root growth is recognized as the primary effect of Al toxicity. To identify genes associated with Al stress and tolerance, transcriptome analyses of four different wheat lines (2 Al-tolerant and 2 Al sensitive) that differ in their response to Al were performed.                  Results:                       Microarray expression profiling revealed that 83 candidate genes are associated with Al stress and 25 are associated with tolerance. The stress-associated genes include important enzymes such as pyruvate dehydrogenase, alternative oxidase, and galactonolactone oxidase, ABC transporter and ascorbate oxido-reducatase. The Al tolerance-associated genes include the ALMT-1 malate transporter, glutathione S-transferase, germin/oxalate oxidase, fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase, cysteine-rich proteins, cytochrome P450 monooxygenase, cellulose synthase, zinc finger transcription factor, disease resistance response protein and F-box containing domain protein.                  Conclusion:                       In this survey, we identified stress- and tolerance-associated genes that may be involved in the detoxification of Al and reactive oxygen species. Alternative pathways could help maintain the supply of important metabolites (H2O2, ascorbate, NADH, and phosphate) needed for Al tolerance and root growth. The Al tolerance-associated genes may be key factors that regulate these pathways.
This article proposes that an assessment of commercial feasibility should be integrated as a prerequisite for human clinical testing to improve the quality and relevance of materials being investigated, as an ethical aspect for human subject protection, and as a means of improving accountability where clinical development is funded on promises of successful translational research. A commercial feasibility analysis is not currently required to justify human clinical testing, but is assumed to have been conducted by industry participants, and use of public funds for clinical trials should be defensible in the same manner. Plant-made vaccines (PMVs) are offered in this discussion as a model for evaluating the relevance of commercial feasibility before human clinical testing. PMVs have been proposed as a potential solution for global health, based on a vision of immunizing the world against many infectious diseases. Such a vision depends on translating current knowledge in plant science and immunology into a potent vaccine that can be readily manufactured and distributed to those in need. But new biologics such as PMVs may fail to be manufactured due to financial or logistical reasons--particularly for orphan diseases without sufficient revenue incentive for industry investment--regardless of the effectiveness which might be demonstrated in human clinical testing. Moreover, all potential instruments of global health depend on translational agents well beyond the lab in order to reach those in need. A model compromising five criteria for commercial feasibility is suggested for inclusion by regulators and ethics review boards as part of the review process prior to approval of human clinical testing. Use of this model may help to facilitate safe and appropriate translational research and bring more immediate benefits to those in need.
Emergence of resistant insects limits the sustainability of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) transgenic crop plants for insect management. Beside this, the presence of unwanted marker gene(s) in the transgenic crops is also a major environmental and health concern. Thus, development of marker free transgenic crop plants expressing a new class of toxin having a different mortality mechanism is necessary for resistance management. In a previous study, we generated an engineered Cry2Aa (D42/K63F/K64P) toxin which has a different mortality mechanism as compared to first generation Bt toxin Cry1A, and this engineered toxin was found to enhance 4.1-6.6-fold toxicity against major lepidopteran insect pests of crop plants. In the present study, we have tested the potency of this engineered synthetic Cry2Aa (D42/K63F/K64P) toxin as a candidate in the development of insect resistant transgenic tobacco plants. Simultaneously, we have eliminated the selectable marker gene from the Cry2Aa (D42/K63F/K64P) expressing tobacco plants by exploiting the Cre/lox mediated recombination methodology, and successfully developed marker free T2 transgenic tobacco plants expressing the engineered Cry2Aa toxin. Realtime and western blot analysis demonstrated the expression of engineered toxin gene in transgenic plants. Insect feeding assays revealed that the marker free T2 progeny of transgenic plants expressing Cry2Aa (D42/K63F/K64P) toxin showed 82-92 and 52-61 % mortality to cotton leaf worm (CLW) and cotton bollworm (CBW) respectively. Thus, this engineered Cry2Aa toxin could be useful for the generation of insect resistant transgenic Bt lines which will protect the crop damages caused by different insect pests such as CLW and CBW.
Epilepsy is estimated to affect 1-2% of the world population, yet remains poorly understood at a molecular level. We have previously established the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans as a model for investigating genetic susceptibilities to seizure-like convulsions in vivo. Here we investigate the behavioral consequences of decreasing the activity of nematode gene homologs within the LIS1 pathway that are associated with a human cortical malformation termed lissencephaly. Bioinformatic analysis revealed the nud-2 gene, encoding the worm homolog of mammalian effectors of LIS1, termed NDE1 and NDEL1. Phenotypic analysis of animals targeted by RNA interference (RNAi) was performed using a pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) exposure paradigm to induce convulsions. Worms depleted for LIS1 pathway components (NUD-1, NUD-2, DHC-1, CDK-5, and CDKA-1) exhibited significant convulsions following PTZ and RNAi treatment. Strains harboring fluorescent markers for GABAergic neuronal architecture and synaptic vesicle trafficking were employed to discern putative mechanisms accounting for observed convulsion behaviors. We found that depletion of LIS1 pathway components resulted in defective GABA synaptic vesicle trafficking. We also utilized combinations of specific genetic backgrounds to create a sensitized state for convulsion susceptibility and discovered that convulsion effects were significantly enhanced when LIS-1 and other pathway components were compromised within the same animals. Thus, interactions among gene products with LIS-1 may mediate intrinsic thresholds of neuronal synchrony.
Arsenic is a metalloid that occurs naturally at parts per million (ppm) levels in the earth's crust. Natural and human activities have contributed to arsenic mobilization and increased concentration in the environment, such that World Health Organization guidelines for arsenic levels in drinking water are exceeded at many locations, worldwide. This translates into an increased risk of arsenic-related illnesses for millions of people. Recent studies demonstrate that increasing thiol-sinks in transgenic plants by overexpressing the bacterial gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (ECS) gene results in a higher tolerance and accumulation of metals and metalloids such as cadmium, mercury, and arsenic. We used Agrobacterium-mediated transformation to genetically engineer eastern cottonwood with a bacterial ECS gene. Eastern cottonwood plants expressing ECS had elevated thiol group levels, consistent with increased ECS activity. In addition, these ECS-expressing plants had enhanced growth on levels of arsenate toxic to control plants in vitro. Furthermore, roots of ECS-expressing plants accumulated significantly more arsenic than control roots (approximately twice as much), while shoots accumulated significantly less arsenic than control shoots (approximately two-thirds as much). We discuss potential mechanisms for shifting the balance of plant arsenic distribution from root accumulation to shoot accumulation, as it pertains to arsenic phytoremediation.
Maize (Zea mays L.) is an important model plant with an important role in agriculture and national economies all over the world. The optimum growth temperature of maize is between 25 and 28 °C. At temperatures below 12 °C, maize is vulnerable to damage by chilling stress. MYB transcription factors play important roles in plants' response to low temperature stress. Maize ZmMYB31 encodes a R2R3-MYB transcription factor, ZmMYB31, which localized in the nucleus. ZmMYB31 expression was induced by chilling stress and the highest expression level was detected with the 24 h chilling treatment. ZmMYB31 expression also increased in overexpressing Arabidopsis lines. The minimal fluorescence (Fo) with all photosystem II reaction centers open increased in wild type (WT) and transgenic plants under chilling stress, with the highest increase in WT. The maximal photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (Fv/Fm) decreased more in WT than in transgenic plants during chilling stress. Furthermore, the ZmMYB31-overexpressing lines showed higher superoxide dismutase and ascorbate peroxidase activity and lower reactive oxygen species (ROS) content than the WT. The expression of genes related to chilling stress was higher in transgenic plants than in WT. These results suggest that ZmMYB31 plays a positive regulatory role in chilling and peroxide stress by regulating the expression of chilling stress-related genes to reduce ion extravasation, ROS content, and low-temperature photoinhibition, thereby improving low temperature resistance.
Over the last decade, APETALA2/Ethylene Responsive Factor (AP2/ERF) proteins have become the subject of intensive research activity due to their involvement in a variety of biological processes. This research led to the identification of AP2/ERF genes in many species; however, little is known about these genes in durum wheat, one of the most important cereal crops in the world. In this study, a new member of the AP2/ERF transcription factor family, designated TdSHN1, was isolated from durum wheat using thermal asymetric interlaced PCR (TAIL-PCR) method. Protein sequence analysis showed that TdSHN1 contained an AP2/ERF domain of 63 amino acids and a putative nuclear localization signal (NLS). Phylogenetic analysis showed that TdSHN1 belongs to a group Va protein in the ERF subfamily which contains the Arabidopsis ERF proteins (SHN1, SHN2, and SHN3). Expression of TdSHN1 was strongly induced by salt, drought, abscisic acid (ABA), and cold. In planta, TdSHN1 protein was able to activate the transcription of GUS reporter gene driven by the GCC box and DRE element sequences. In addition, TdSHN1 was targeted to the nucleus when transiently expressed in tobacco epidermal cells. In transgenic yeast, overexpression of TdSHN1 increased tolerance to multiple abiotic stresses. Taken together, the results showed that TdSHN1 encodes an abiotic stress-inducible, transcription factor which confers abiotic stress tolerance in yeast. TdSHN1 is therefore a promising candidate for improvement of biotic and abiotic stress tolerance in wheat as well as other crops.
Objectives:                       Human subjects and Old World primates have high levels of antibody to galactose-α-1,3 galactose β-1,4-N-acetylglucosamine (α-Gal). Commercially available bioprosthetic heart valves of porcine and bovine origin retain the Gal antigen despite current processing techniques. Gal-deficient pigs eliminate this xenoantigen. This study tests whether binding of human anti-Gal antibody effects calcification of wild-type and Gal-deficient glutaraldehyde-fixed porcine pericardium by using a standard subcutaneous implant model.                  Methods:                       Expression of α-Gal was characterized by lectin Griffonia simplicifolia-IB4 staining. Glutaraldehyde-fixed pericardial disks from Gal-positive and Gal-deficient pigs were implanted into 12-day-old Wistar rats and 1.5-kg rabbits with and without prelabeling with affinity-purified human anti-Gal antibody. Calcification of the implants was determined after 3 weeks by using inductively coupled plasma spectroscopy.                  Results:                       The α-Gal antigen was detected in wild-type but not Gal-deficient porcine pericardium. Wild-type disks prelabeled with human anti-Gal antibody exhibited significantly greater calcification compared with that seen in antibody-free wild-type samples (mean ± standard error of the mean: 111 ± 8.4 and 74 ± 9.6 mg/g, respectively; P = .01). In the presence of anti-Gal antibody, a significantly greater level of calcification was detected in wild-type compared with GTKO porcine pericardium (111 ± 8.4 and 55 ± 11.8 mg/g, respectively; P = .005). Calcification of Gal-deficient pericardium was not affected by the presence of anti-Gal antibody (51 ± 9.1 and 55 ± 11.8 mg/g).                  Conclusions:                       In this model anti-Gal antibody accelerates calcification of wild-type but not Gal-deficient glutaraldehyde-fixed pericardium. This study suggests that preformed anti-Gal antibody present in all patients might contribute to calcification of currently used bioprosthetic heart valves. Gal-deficient pigs might become the preferred source for new, potentially calcium-resistant bioprosthetic heart valves.
World Trade Organization member states are preparing for the upcoming renegotiation of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. One of the important elements of that renegotiation is the ethical considerations regarding the patenting of higher life forms and their component parts (e.g. DNA and cell-lines). The interface between the genetic revolution, patentability, and ethical considerations is the subject of this article. The author identifies, explores, and critiques four possible positions Canada may adopt in respect of patentability of biomedical material. First, Canada could do nothing. This approach would mean keeping biomedical materials outside the patent system and outside the stream of commerce. Canada would simply wait for an international consensus to develop before adopting a position of its own. Second, Canada could go it alone. It could implement a policy that balances the incentive effects of patents with the need to incorporate ethical and social values into the decision-making process regarding the use of biomedical materials. In respect of this option, the author proposes a model whereby non-profit bodies would hold the exclusive rights to research, use, and exploit biomedical materials. Third, Canada could follow the United States, Europe, and Japan by providing for almost unrestricted patenting of biomedical materials. This would be the most industry-friendly alternative. The fourth and final option is to use the medicare system to promote discussion of ethical considerations involved in the use of biomedical materials. The power of provincial health agencies may be used as a lever to ensure the discussion of ethical considerations concerning the use of biomedical materials. The author concludes that the fourth and final option is the best alternative for Canada while waiting for an international consensus to emerge.
Maize ( Zea mays ) is an important staple crop in many parts of the world but has low iron bioavailability, in part due to its high phytate content. Hemoglobin is a form of iron that is highly bioavailable, and its bioavailability is not inhibited by phytate. It was hypothesized that maize hemoglobin is a highly bioavailable iron source and that biofortification of maize with iron can be accomplished by overexpression of maize globin in the endosperm. Maize was transformed with a gene construct encoding a translational fusion of maize globin and green fluorescent protein under transcriptional control of the maize 27 kDa γ-zein promoter. Iron bioavailability of maize hemoglobin produced in Escherichia coli and of stably transformed seeds expressing the maize globin-GFP fusion was determined using an in vitro Caco-2 cell culture model. Maize flour fortified with maize hemoglobin was found to have iron bioavailability that is not significantly different from that of flour fortified with ferrous sulfate or bovine hemoglobin but is significantly higher than unfortified flour. Transformed maize grain expressing maize globin was found to have iron bioavailability similar to that of untransformed seeds. These results suggest that maize globin produced in E. coli may be an effective iron fortificant, but overexpressing maize globin in maize endosperm may require a different strategy to increase bioavailable iron content in maize.
Transgenic insect-resistant cotton has been released into the environment for more than a decade in China to effectively control the cotton bollworm (Helicoverpa armigera) and other Lepidoptera. Because of concerns about undesirable ecological side-effects of transgenic crops, it is important to monitor the potential environmental impact of transgenic insect-resistant cotton after commercial release. Our 2-year study included 1 cotton field where non-transgenic cotton had been planted continuously and 2 other cotton fields where transgenic insect-resistant cotton had been planted for different lengths of time since 1997 and since 2002. In 2 consecutive years (2009 and 2010), we took soil samples from 3 cotton fields at 4 different growth stages (seedling, budding, boll-forming and boll-opening stages), collected soil nematodes from soil with the sugar flotation and centrifugation method and identified the soil nematodes to the genus level. The generic composition, individual densities and diversity indices of the soil nematodes did not differ significantly between the 2 transgenic cotton fields and the non-transgenic cotton field, but significant seasonal variation was found in the individual densities of the principal trophic groups and in the diversity indices of the nematodes in all 3 cotton fields. The study used a comparative perspective to monitor the impact of transgenic insect-resistant cotton grown in typical 'real world' conditions. The results of the study suggested that more than 10 years of cultivation of transgenic insect-resistant cotton had no significant effects-adverse or otherwise-on soil nematodes. This study provides a theoretical basis for ongoing environmental impact monitoring of transgenic plants.
We recently reported that levels of unsaturated lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) in the small intestine significantly correlated with the extent of aortic atherosclerosis in LDL receptor-null (LDLR⁻/⁻) mice fed a Western diet (WD). Here we demonstrate that WD increases unsaturated (but not saturated) LPA levels in the small intestine of LDLR⁻/⁻ mice and causes changes in small intestine gene expression. Confirmation of microarray analysis by quantitative RT-PCR showed that adding transgenic tomatoes expressing the apoA-I mimetic peptide 6F (Tg6F) to WD prevented many WD-mediated small intestine changes in gene expression. If instead of feeding WD, unsaturated LPA was added to chow and fed to the mice: i) levels of LPA in the small intestine were similar to those induced by feeding WD; ii) gene expression changes in the small intestine mimicked WD-mediated changes; and iii) changes in plasma serum amyloid A, total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL-cholesterol levels, and the fast-performance liquid chromatography lipoprotein profile mimicked WD-mediated changes. Adding Tg6F (but not control tomatoes) to LPA-supplemented chow prevented the LPA-induced changes. We conclude that: i) WD-mediated systemic inflammation and dyslipidemia may be in part due to WD-induced increases in small intestine LPA levels; and ii) Tg6F reduces WD-mediated systemic inflammation and dyslipidemia by preventing WD-induced increases in LPA levels in the small intestine.
An efficient method for making directed DNA sequence modifications to plant genes (gene targeting) is at present lacking, thereby frustrating efforts to dissect plant gene function and engineer crop plants that better meet the world's burgeoning need for food, fibre and fuel. Zinc-finger nucleases (ZFNs)-enzymes engineered to create DNA double-strand breaks at specific loci-are potent stimulators of gene targeting; for example, they can be used to precisely modify engineered reporter genes in plants. Here we demonstrate high-frequency ZFN-stimulated gene targeting at endogenous plant genes, namely the tobacco acetolactate synthase genes (ALS SuRA and SuRB), for which specific mutations are known to confer resistance to imidazolinone and sulphonylurea herbicides. Herbicide-resistance mutations were introduced into SuR loci by ZFN-mediated gene targeting at frequencies exceeding 2% of transformed cells for mutations as far as 1.3 kilobases from the ZFN cleavage site. More than 40% of recombinant plants had modifications in multiple SuR alleles. The observed high frequency of gene targeting indicates that it is now possible to efficiently make targeted sequence changes in endogenous plant genes.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades play pivotal roles in mediating biotic and abiotic stress responses. Cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) is the most important textile crop in the world, and often encounters abiotic stress during its growth seasons. In this study, a gene encoding a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) was isolated from cotton, and designated as GhMPK17. The open reading frame (ORF) of GhMPK17 gene is 1494 bp in length and encodes a protein with 497 amino acids. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis indicated that GhMPK17 expression was up-regulated in cotton under NaCl, mannitol and ABA treatments. The transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing GhMPK17 gene showed higher seed germination, root elongation and cotyledon greening/expansion rates than those of the wild type on MS medium containing NaCl, mannitol and exogenous ABA, suggesting that overexpression of GhMPK17 in Arabidopsis increased plant ABA-insensitivity, and enhanced plant tolerance to salt and osmotic stresses. Furthermore, overexpression of GhMPK17 in Arabidopsis reduced H2O2 level and altered expression of ABA- and abiotic stress-related genes in the transgenic plants. Collectively, these data suggested that GhMPK17 gene may be involved in plant response to high salinity and osmotic stresses and ABA signaling.
Iron deficiency is the most widespread micronutrient deficiency world-wild, and is estimated to affect about 30% of the world population. To increase the iron content of rice in Chinese, the 764 bp cDNA of ferritin gene was cloned from soybean (Phaseolus limensis), and constructed between the 1 353 bp rice glutelin GluB-1 promoter and NOS terminator in a binary vector pCAMIBA1301. The constructed pYF1067 vector was introduced into Agrobacterium strain EHA105, and used for transformation of the primary callus derived from immature embryos of a high-yielding rice ( Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) variety Wuxiangjin 9. Under the selection on hygromycin-containing medium, seventeen independent transgenic rice lines, total more than 80 transgenic plants, were finally regenerated, and most of these transgenic rice plants grew normally. PCR and Southern blot analysis of total DNA from primary transformants confirmed that one to three copies of the transgenes integrated into the genome of most of the transgenic plants, and they could be stably transmitted into the progeny of the transgenic rice. Northern blot analysis showed that the ferritin gene could specifically express in the endosperm of transgenic rice with high level, while no or low expression in leaves. The expression level varied among different independent transgenic rice plants. There was a significant effect of the high-expression of ferritin on the increased iron content in transgenic rice, the iron content in the milling rice of transgenic rice was up to 64% higher than that of the untransformed wild-type plant, whereas no significant alteration of the zinc level occurred between these two type rice plants.
With global climate change, abnormally low temperatures have affected the world's rice production. Many genes have been shown to be essential for molecular improvement of rice cold-tolerance traits. However, less is known about the molecular cellular mechanism of their response to cold stress. Here, we investigated OsRAN2 involved in regulation of cell division during cold stress in rice. Expression of OsRAN2 was increased under cold treatment, but not during salt and drought stress. The mean root mitotic index was closely related to the expression level of OsRAN2. Knockdown transgenic rice lines showed an aberrant organization of spindles during mitosis and stunted growth during development. Overexpression of OsRAN2 enhanced cold tolerance in rice. The transgenic rice overexpressing OsRAN2 showed maintained cell division, decreased proportion of cells with intranuclear tubulin and formation of a normal nuclear envelope under the cold condition. Our study suggests a mechanism for OsRAN2 in regulating cold resistance in rice by maintaining cell division through promoting the normal export of intranuclear tubulin at the end of mitosis. This insight could help improve the cold-tolerance trait in rice.
4,4'-dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) has been re-recommended by the World Health Organization for malaria mosquito control. Previous DDT use has resulted in resistance, and with continued use resistance will increase in terms of level and extent. Drosophila melanogaster is a model dipteran that has many available genetic tools, numerous studies done on insecticide resistance mechanisms, and is related to malaria mosquitoes allowing for extrapolation. The 91-R strain of D. melanogaster is highly resistant to DDT (>1500-fold), however, there is no mechanistic scheme that accounts for this level of resistance. Recently, reduced penetration, increased detoxification, and direct excretion have been identified as resistance mechanisms in the 91-R strain. Their interactions, however, remain unclear. Use of UAS-RNAi transgenic lines of D. melanogaster allowed for the targeted knockdown of genes putatively involved in DDT resistance and has validated the role of several cuticular proteins (Cyp4g1 and Lcp1), cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (Cyp6g1 and Cyp12d1), and ATP binding cassette transporters (Mdr50, Mdr65, and Mrp1) involved in DDT resistance. Further, increased sensitivity to DDT in the 91-R strain after intra-abdominal dsRNA injection for Mdr50, Mdr65, and Mrp1 was determined by a DDT contact bioassay, directly implicating these genes in DDT efflux and resistance.
Genetically engineered transgenic crop varieties (TGVs) have spread rapidly in the last 10 years, increasingly to traditionally-based agricultural systems (TBAS) of the Third World both as seed and food. Proponents claim they are key to reducing hunger and negative environmental impacts of agriculture. Opponents claim they will have the opposite effect. The risk management process (RMP) is the primary way in which TGVs are regulated in the US (and many other industrial countries), and proponents claim that the findings of that process in the US and its regulatory consequences should be extended to TBAS. However, TBAS differ in important ways from industrial agriculture, so TGVs could have different effects in TBAS, and farmers there may evaluate risks and benefits differently. To evaluate some potential impacts of TGVs in TBAS we used the RMP as a framework for the case of Bt maize in Mesoamerica and Cuba. We interviewed 334 farmers in Cuba, Guatemala and Mexico about farming practices, evaluations of potential harm via hypothetical scenarios, and ranking of maize types. Results suggest high potential for transgene flow via seed, grain and pollen; differences in effects of this exposure in TBAS compared with industrial agriculture; farmers see some potential consequences as harmful. Perceptions of harm differ among farmers in ways determined by their farming systems, and are different from those commonly assumed in industrial systems. An RMP including participation of farmers and characteristics of TBAS critical for their functioning is necessary to ensure that investments in agricultural technologies will improve, not compromise these agricultural systems.
Long-term ecological effects of transgenic Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) crops on nontarget pests have received limited attention, more so in diverse small holder-based cropping systems of the developing world. Field trials conducted over 10 years in northern China show that mirid bugs (Heteroptera: Miridae) have progressively increased population sizes and acquired pest status in cotton and multiple other crops, in association with a regional increase in Bt cotton adoption. More specifically, our analyses show that Bt cotton has become a source of mirid bugs and that their population increases are related to drops in insecticide use in this crop. Hence, alterations of pest management regimes in Bt cotton could be responsible for the appearance and subsequent spread of nontarget pests at an agro-landscape level.
HKT transporters which mediate Na+-specific transport or Na+-K+ co-transport, play an important role in protecting plants from salinity stress by preventing Na+-over-accumulation in leaves. In this work, a 1508-bp genomic fragment upstream of the TmHKT1;4-A1 translated sequence from Triticum monococcum has been isolated, cloned, and designated as the ''PrTmHKT1;4-A1'' promoter. Sequence analysis of ''PrTmHKT1;4-A1'' revealed the presence of cis-regulatory elements which could be required for abiotic stress and abscisic acid (ABA) responsiveness. The PrTmHKT1;4-A1 sequence was fused to the β-glucuronidase gene and the resulting construct was transferred into Arabidopsis plants. Histochemical assays of stably transformed Arabidopsis plants showed that PrTmHKT1;4-A1 is active in this heterologous system. Under control conditions, GUS histochemical staining was observed significantly only in leaves of 20-day-old plants. Histological sections prepared at this stage and in leaves revealed activity localized in leaf veins (phloem and bundle sheath). In flowers, GUS activity was detected only in sepals. After 3 days of challenging the plants with salt, dehydration or ABA treatments, the PrTmHKT1;4-A1 transformed Arabidopsis plants showed a substantial increase in the GUS staining in leaves, compared to untransformed plants under the same conditions. Real time qPCR expression analysis of the uidA gene, showed that GusA transcripts were up-regulated by salt, dehydration, and ABA treatments. All together, these results showed that PrTmHKT1;4-A1 is an age-dependent, abiotic-stress-inducible, organ-specific and tissue-specific promoter in a heterologous dicot system.
Interleukin 12 (IL-12) is a key heterodimeric cytokine produced by a variety of antigen-presenting cells, including dendritic cells, macrophages, and B cells. It displays a potent array of biological activities affecting natural killer (NK) and T cells. These activities include promotion of cell-mediated or type 1 T helper cell responses (Th1). Due to that property, IL-12 has been employed in cancer immunotherapy, in mouse models of infectious diseases and in airway inflammation, and it may also have utility as a vaccine adjuvant. Transgenic plants are being used in many laboratories around the world for the production of therapeutically valuable proteins and as vehicles for oral vaccines. Here we present the expression of a single-chain human interleukin-12 in transgenic tobacco plants. The biological activity of plant-produced IL-12 was determined by interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) production by natural killer (NK) cells, and the level of production was comparable to that obtained with commercially available recombinant IL-12. The potential use of this recombinant protein is discussed.
Sterile insect technique (SIT) programs are designed to eradicate pest species by releasing mass-reared, sterile insects into an infested area. The first major implementation of SIT was the New World Screwworm Eradication Program, which successfully eliminated the New World screwworm (NWS), Cochliomyia hominivorax (Coquerel) (Diptera: Calliphoridae), from the Continental US, Mexico and much of Central America. Ionizing radiation is currently used for sterilization, but transgenic insect techniques could replace this method, providing a safer, more cost-effective alternative. Genetic transformation methods have been demonstrated in NWS, and verified by Southern blot hybridization, PCR and sequencing of element insertion junctions. A lethal insertional mutation and enhancer detection-like phenotypic expression variations are presented and discussed. In addition to supporting the eradication efforts, transformation methods offer potential means to identify genes and examine gene function in NWS.
Substantial evidence from the animal kingdom shows that there is a trade-off between benefits and costs associated with rapid somatic growth. One would therefore expect growth rates under natural conditions to be close to an evolutionary optimum. Nevertheless, natural selection in many salmonid species appears to be toward larger size and earlier emergence from spawning redds, indicating a potential for increased growth rate to evolve. We tested how selection for genetic variants (growth hormone transgenic coho salmon, Oncorhynchus kisutch, with more than doubled daily growth rate potential relative to wild genotypes) depended on predator timing and food abundance during the early period of life (fry stage). In artificial redds, fry of the fast-growing genotypes showed a highly significant developmental shift, emerging from gravel nests approximately two weeks sooner, but with an 18.6% reduced survival, relative to wild-genotype fry. In seminatural streams, fry of the fast-growing genotypes suffered higher predation than those of wild genotypes when predators were present at the time of fry emergence, but this difference was less pronounced when food was scarce. In streams where predators were introduced after emergence, fry survived equally well regardless of food availability. Surviving fry grew faster in habitats provided with more food, and fast-growing genotypes also grew faster than wild genotypes when predators arrived late and food was abundant. Fewer fish migrated downstream past a waterfall when food availability was high and in the presence of predators, and wild-genotype fry were more likely to migrate than fry of the fast-growing genotypes. After being returned to the experimental streams after migration, fast-growing genotypes survived equally well as those of the same genotypes that did not migrate, whereas migrating wild genotypes experienced higher mortality relative to those of the same genotypes that did not migrate. Comparisons of growth rates between siblings retained under hatchery conditions and those from habitats with the fastest growth in the experimental stream revealed that growth rates were similar for wild genotypes in both environments, whereas the fast-growing genotypes in the streams only realized 90% of their growth potential. The present study has shown that a major shift in developmental timing can alter critical early stages affecting survival and can have a significant effect on fitness. Furthermore, ecological conditions such as food abundance and predation pressure can strongly influence the potential for fast-growing variants to survive under natural conditions. The large-scale removal of many predatory species around the world may augment the evolution of increased intrinsic growth rates in some taxa.
Plants transformed with single Bt gene are liable to develop insect resistance and this has already been reported in a number of studies carried out around the world where Bt cotton was cultivated on commercial scale. Later, it was envisaged to transform plants with more than one Bt genes in order to combat with resistant larvae. This approach seems valid as various Bt genes possess different binding domains which could delay the likely hazards of insect resistance against a particular Bt toxin. But it is difficult under field conditions to develop homozygous plants expressing all Bt genes equally after many generations without undergoing recombination effects. A number of researches claiming to transform plants from three to seven transgenes in a single plant were reported during the last decade but none has yet applied for patent of homozygous transgenic lines. A better strategy might be to use hybrid-Bt gene(s) modified for improved lectin-binding domains to boost Bt receptor sites in insect midgut. These recombinant-Bt gene(s) would express different lectin domains in a single polypeptide and it is relatively easy to develop homozygous transgenic lines under field conditions. Enhanced chloroplast-localized expression of hybrid-Bt gene would leave no room for insects to develop resistance. We devised and successfully applied this strategy in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) and data up to T3 generation showed that our transgenic cotton plants were displaying enhanced chloroplast-targeted Cry1Ac-RB expression. Laboratory and field bioassays gave promising results against American bollworm (Heliothis armigera), pink bollworm (Pictinophora scutigera) and fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda) that otherwise, were reported to have evolved resistance against Cry1Ac toxin. Elevated levels of hybrid-Bt toxin were confirmed by ELISA of chloroplast-enriched protein samples extracted from leaves of transgenic cotton lines. While, localization of recombinant Cry1Ac-RB protein in chloroplast was established through confocal laser scanning microscopy.
Acidity is a serious limitation to plant production on many of the world's agricultural soils. Toxic aluminium (Al) cations solubilized by the acidity rapidly inhibit root growth and limit subsequent uptake of water and nutrients. Recent work has shown that the ALMT1 gene of wheat (Triticum aestivum) encodes a malate transporter that is associated with malate efflux and Al tolerance. We generated transgenic barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants expressing ALMT1 and assessed their ability to exude malate and withstand Al stress. ALMT1 expression in barley conferred an Al-activated efflux of malate with properties similar to those of Al-tolerant wheat. The transgenic barley showed a high level of Al tolerance when grown in both hydroponic culture and on acid soils. These findings provide additional evidence that ALMT1 is a major Al-tolerance gene and demonstrate its ability to confer effective tolerance to acid soils through a transgenic approach in an important crop species.
To meet the nutritional needs of a rapidly growing world population, which is likely to reach 8 billion by 2030, 50% more food grains with higher and more stable yields must be produced. Biofortification is considered the most effective way to increase micronutrient intakes. It is low cost and sustainable and does not require a change in eating habits or impose recurring costs. A research project to improve the iron and zinc content of rice was initiated at the International Rice Research Institute in 1992. Several experimental lines of rice with increased iron and zinc content have been produced. In another experiment rices with beta-carotene have been produced. Other experimental efforts aim at raising the micronutrient content in wheat, maize, cassava, sweet potatoes, and beans. Maize with improved amino acid balance is being grown in several African countries.
The insecticidal cry genes of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) have been successfully used for development of insect resistant transgenic rice plants. In this study, a novel cry2AX1 gene consisting a sequence of cry2Aa and cry2Ac gene driven by rice rbcS promoter was introduced into a rice cultivar, ASD16. Among 27 putative rice transformants, 20 plants were found to be positive for cry2AX1 gene. The expression of Cry2AX1 protein in transgenic rice plants ranged from 5.95 to 122.40 ng/g of fresh leaf tissue. Stable integration of the transgene was confirmed in putative transformants of rice by Southern blot hybridization analysis. Insect bioassay on T0 transgenic rice plants against rice leaffolder (Cnaphalocrosis medinalis) recorded larval mortality up to 83.33%. Stable inheritance and expression of cry2AX1 gene in T1 progenies was demonstrated using Southern and ELISA. The detached leaf bit bioassay with selected T1 plants showed 83.33-90.00% mortality against C. medinalis. The whole plant bioassay for T1 plants with rice leaffolder showed significant level of resistance even at a lower level of Cry2AX1 expression varying from 131 to 158 ng/g fresh leaf tissue during tillering stage.
We developed a novel antiviral strategy by combining transposon-based transgenesis and the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated 9 (Cas9) system for the direct cleavage of Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus (BmNPV) genome DNA to promote virus clearance in silkworms. We demonstrate that transgenic silkworms constitutively expressing Cas9 and guide RNAs targeting the BmNPV immediate early-1 (ie-1) and me53 genes effectively induce target-specific cleavage and subsequent mutagenesis, especially large (∼7-kbp) segment deletions in BmNPV genomes, and thus exhibit robust suppression of BmNPV proliferation. Transgenic animals exhibited higher and inheritable resistance to BmNPV infection than wild-type animals. Our approach will not only contribute to modern sericulture but also shed light on future antiviral therapy.IMPORTANCE Pathogen genome targeting has shown its potential in antiviral research. However, transgenic CRISPR/Cas9 system-mediated viral genome targeting has not been reported as an antiviral strategy in a natural animal host of a virus. Our data provide an effective approach against BmNPV infection in a real-world biological system and demonstrate the potential of transgenic CRISPR/Cas9 systems in antiviral research in other species.
Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) is one of the major grain crops, and heat stress adversely affects wheat production in many regions of the world. Previously, we found a heat-responsive gene named Lipid Transfer Protein 3 (TaLTP3) in wheat. TaLTP3 was deduced to be regulated by cold, ABA, MeJA, Auxin and oxidative stress according to cis-acting motifs in its promoter sequences. In this study, we show that TaLTP3 is responsive to prolonged water deficit, salt or ABA treatment in wheat seedlings. Also, TaLTP3 accumulation was observed after the plant suffered from heat stress both at the seedling and the grain-filling stages. TaLTP3 protein was localized in the cell membrane and cytoplasm of tobacco epidermal cells. Overexpression of TaLTP3 in yeast imparted tolerance to heat stress compared to cells expressing the vector alone. Most importantly, transgenic Arabidopsis plants engineered to overexpress TaLTP3 showed higher thermotolerance than control plants at the seedling stage. Further investigation indicated that transgenic lines decreased H₂O₂ accumulation and membrane injury under heat stress. Taken together, our results demonstrate that TaLTP3 confers heat stress tolerance possibly through reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging.
Crop yields are significantly reduced by aluminum toxicity on highly acidic soils, which comprise up to 50% of the world's arable land. Candidate aluminum tolerance proteins include organic acid efflux transporters, with the organic acids forming non-toxic complexes with rhizosphere aluminum. In this study, we used positional cloning to identify the gene encoding a member of the multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) family, an aluminum-activated citrate transporter, as responsible for the major sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) aluminum tolerance locus, Alt(SB). Polymorphisms in regulatory regions of Alt(SB) are likely to contribute to large allelic effects, acting to increase Alt(SB) expression in the root apex of tolerant genotypes. Furthermore, aluminum-inducible Alt(SB) expression is associated with induction of aluminum tolerance via enhanced root citrate exudation. These findings will allow us to identify superior Alt(SB) haplotypes that can be incorporated via molecular breeding and biotechnology into acid soil breeding programs, thus helping to increase crop yields in developing countries where acidic soils predominate.
Potato is the world's largest non-cereal crop. Potato late blight is a pandemic, foliar wasting potato disease caused by Phytophthora infestans, which has become highly virulent, fungicide resistant, and widely disseminated. Similarly, fungicide resistant isolates of Phytophthora erythroseptica, which causes pink rot, have also become an economic scourge of potato tubers. Thus, an alternate, cost effective strategy for disease control has become an international imperative. Here we describe a strategy for engineering potato plants exhibiting strong protection against these exceptionally virulent pathogens without deleterious effects on plant yield or vigor. The small, naturally occurring antimicrobial cationic peptide, temporin A, was N-terminally modified (MsrA3) and expressed in potato plants. MsrA3 conveyed strong resistance to late blight and pink rot phytopathogens in addition to the bacterial pathogen Erwinia carotovora. Transgenic tubers remained disease-free during storage for more than 2 years. These results provide a timely, sustainable, effective, and environmentally friendly means of control of potato diseases while simultaneously preventing storage losses.
Citrus canker provoked by Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri is a bacterial disease causing severe losses in all citrus-producing areas around the world. Xanthomonas infection is considered as an endemic disease in Northeast and Northwest Argentina, affecting as much as 10% of commercial citrus plantations. There is not known natural resistance neither in orange varieties nor in rootstocks used for grafting of commercial cultivars. To introduce resistance to this disease, plants of Pineapple sweet orange were transformed with a genetic construct allowing constitutive accumulation of dermaseptin. In comparison with non-transformed plants, transgenic plants showed symptom reduction levels of up to 50% in in planta assays performed under controlled conditions.
Some poxviruses are very attractive as transgenic vaccine vectors for humans, domestic animals and wildlife. Poxviridae family members circulate in different ecosystems and parts of the world, providing a pool of possible recombination partners for released or escaped genetically modified poxviruses. We performed in vitro double infections with a vaccinia virus strain Ankara (MVA) vectored influenza vaccine and a cowpox virus isolate from Norway, isolated hybrids, and further analyzed three hybrid viruses with different plaque phenotypes. One of the hybrids was genetically unstable, and during adaptation to new host cells its MVA derived influenza gene was deleted at a high frequency. This is significant in a risk assessment context, since the transgene would be the only logical tag for monitoring unwanted spread and non-target effects of a vaccine virus. Putative recombination events involving genetically modified and naturally occurring viruses should be included in health and environmental risk assessments.
Heavy metal (HM) toxicity has become a grave problem in the world since it leads to hazardous effects on living organisms. Transcriptomic/proteomic studies in plants have identified a large number of metal-responsive gene families. Of these, cytochrome-P450 (CYPs) family members are composed of enzymes carrying out detoxification of exogenous molecules. Here, we report a CYP-like protein encoded by Os08g01480 locus in rice that helps the plant to combat HM and other abiotic stresses. To functionally characterize CYP-like gene, cDNA and promoter were isolated from rice to develop Arabidopsis transgenic lines. Heterologous expression of Os08g01480 in Arabidopsis provided significant tolerance towards abiotic stresses. In silico analysis reveals that Os08g01480 might help plants to combat environmental stress via modulating auxin metabolism. Transgenic lines expressing reporter gene under control of Os08g01480 promoter demonstrated differential promoter activity in different tissues during environmental stresses. These studies indicated that differential expression of Os08g01480 might be modulating response of plants towards environmental stresses as well as in different developmental stages.
Respiratory allergy and allergy to foods continue to be important health issues. There is evidence to indicate that the incidence of food allergy around the world is on the rise. Current estimates indicate that approximately 5% of young children and 1-2% of adults suffer from true food allergy (Kagan 2003). Although a large number of in vivo and in vitro tests exist for the clinical diagnosis of allergy in humans, we lack validated animal models of allergenicity. This deficiency creates serious problems for regulatory agencies and industries that must define the potential allergenicity of foods before marketing. The emergence of several biotechnologically derived foods and industrial proteins, as well as their potential to sensitize genetically predisposed populations to develop allergy, has prompted health officials and regulatory agencies around the world to seek approaches and methodologies to screen novel proteins for allergenicity.
Rapeseed (Brassica napus) is one of the most important edible oilseed crops in the world and is increasingly used globally to produce bio-diesel. Therefore, increasing oil content of oilseed corps is of importance economically in both food and oil industries. The wri1 genes are differentially expressed in B. napus lines with different oil content. To investigate the effects of B. napus WRI1 (BnWRI1) on oil content, two Bnwri1 genes with different lengths, Bnwri1-1 and Bnwri1-2, were identified and sequenced. Homology analysis shows 80% amino acids of Bnwri1s are homologous to Arabidopsis thaliana WRI1 (AtWRI1). Overexpression of Bnwri1 cDNAs driven by cauliflower mosaic virus 35S-promoter in 51 transgenic A. thaliana lines resulted in 10-40% increased seed oil content and enlarged seed size and mass. Detailed analysis on transgenic embryos indicates an increased cell size other than cell number. In addition, Bnwri1 sequence polymorphism is highly related to oil content (p < 0.001). Taking together, Bnwri1 has potential applications in food and oil industries and in rapeseed breeding.
An estimated 12 million persons throughout the world suffer from the protozoan disease leishmaniasis. Current treatments have liabilities including poor activity against some forms of leishmaniasis, toxicity, or the need for parenteral administration. Higher throughput methods to screen chemical compounds are needed to facilitate the search for new antileishmania drugs. In the mammalian host, Leishmania parasites exist as amastigotes that replicate within macrophages. Therefore, an in vitro screening assay using intramacrophage amastigotes most closely represents the natural infection. We have transfected strains of Leishmania major and Leishmania amazonensis with the beta-lactamase gene, which catalyzes a colorimetric reaction with the substrate nitrocephin. The growth of these beta-lactamase-expressing Leishmania within macrophages was quantified in 96-well plates using an optical density plate reader, thus simplifying the methodology for scoring inhibitor assays. This simple and relatively inexpensive colorimetric assay helps improve throughput for screening compounds for antileishmania activity.
Mn/Zn ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate (Mn/Zn-EBDC) fungicides are among some the most widely-used fungicides in the world. Although they have been available for over 50 years, little is known about their mechanism of action in fungi, or their potentially toxic mechanisms in humans. To determine if exposure of Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) to a representative fungicide (Manzate; MZ) from this group inhibits mitochondria or produces reactive oxygen species (ROS), we acutely (30min) exposed worms to various MZ concentrations. Initial oxygen consumption studies showed an overall statistically significant decrease in oxygen consumption associated with addition of Complex I- and/or II-substrate in treatment groups compared to controls (*p<0.05). In order to better characterize the individual complex activity, further studies were completed that specifically assessed Complex II or Complex IV. Data indicated that neither of these two complexes were targets of MZ treatment. Results from tetramethylrhodamine ethyl ester (proton gradient) and ATP assays showed statistically significant reductions in both endpoints (*p<0.05, **p<0.01, respectively). Additional studies were completed to determine if MZ treatment also resulted in increased ROS production. These assays provided evidence that hydrogen peroxide, but not superoxide or hydroxyl radical levels were statistically significantly increased (*p<0.05). Taken together, these data indicate exposure of C. elegans to MZ concentrations to which humans are exposed leads to mitochondrial inhibition and concomitant hydrogen peroxide production. Since mitochondrial inhibition and increased ROS are associated with numerous neurodegenerative diseases, we suggest further studies to determine if MZ catalyzes similar toxic processes in mammals.
Triple-knockout (TKO) pigs (with added protective human transgenes) are likely to be optimal sources of organs for clinical organ xenotransplantation because many humans have minimal or no natural antibody to TKO pig cells. However, Old World monkeys (OWMs) have naturally-existing antibodies directed to TKO cells. We measured anti-pig IgM/IgG binding, and complement-dependent cytotoxicity to wild-type (WT), α1,3-galactosyltransferase gene-knockout (GTKO), and TKO pig peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) using sera from humans, several OWMs, and two New World monkeys (NWMs). Furthermore, we compared survival of GTKO (n = 5) and TKO (n = 3) pig kidneys in baboons. OWMs had significantly greater IgM binding and cytotoxicity to TKO PBMCs than humans or NWMs. Mean anti-TKO IgM was significantly higher in OWMs and significantly lower in NWMs than in humans. Cytotoxicity of OWM sera to TKO PBMCs was significantly greater than of human serum, but there was no significant difference between human and NWM sera. The median survival of TKO pig kidneys (4 days) in baboons was significantly shorter than that of GTKO kidneys (136 days) (p < 0.05). Even though considered ideal for clinical xenotransplantation, the presence of naturally-existing antibodies to TKO pig cells in OWMs complicates the transplantation of TKO pig kidneys in OWMs.
Drought and salinity are two major environmental factors limiting crop production worldwide. Improvement of drought and salt tolerance of crops with transgenic approach is an effective strategy to meet the demand of the ever-growing world population. Arabidopsis ENHANCED DROUGHT TOLERANCE1/HOMEODOMAIN GLABROUS11 (AtEDT1/HDG11), a homeodomain-START transcription factor, has been demonstrated to significantly improve drought tolerance in Arabidopsis, tobacco, tall fescue and rice. Here we report that AtHDG11 also confers drought and salt tolerance in upland cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) and woody plant poplar (Populus tomentosa Carr.). Our results showed that both the transgenic cotton and poplar exhibited significantly enhanced tolerance to drought and salt stress with well-developed root system. In the leaves of the transgenic cotton plants, proline content, soluble sugar content and activities of reactive oxygen species-scavenging enzymes were significantly increased after drought and salt stress compared with wild type. Leaf stomatal density was significantly reduced, whereas stomatal and leaf epidermal cell size were significantly increased in both the transgenic cotton and poplar plants. More importantly, the transgenic cotton showed significantly improved drought tolerance and better agronomic performance with higher cotton yield in the field both under normal and drought conditions. These results demonstrate that AtHDG11 is not only a promising candidate for crops improvement but also for woody plants.
Aluminum when in soluble form, as found in acidic soils that comprise about 40 percent of the world's arable land, is toxic to many crops. Organic acid excretion has been correlated with aluminum tolerance in higher plants. Overproduction of citrate was shown to result in aluminum tolerance in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and papaya (Carica papaya) plants.
We evaluated response differences of normal and transformed (so-called 'hairy') roots of soybean (Glycine max L. (Merr.), cv L17) to the Nod-factor inducing isoflavone genistein and salinity by quantifying growth, nodulation, nitrogen fixation and biochemical changes. Composite soybean plants were generated using Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation of non-nodulating mutant nod139 (GmNFR5α minus) with complementing A. rhizogenes K599 carrying the wild-type GmNFR5α gene under control of the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter. We used genetic complementation for nodulation ability as only nodulated roots were scored. After hairy root emergence, primary roots were removed and composite plants were inoculated with Bradyrhizobium japonicum (strain CB1809) pre-induced with 10 μM genistein and watered with NaCl (0, 25, 50 and 100 mM). There were significant differences between hairy roots and natural roots in their responses to salt stress and genistein application. In addition, there were noticeable nodulation and nitrogen fixation differences. Composite plants had better growth, more root volume and chlorophyll as well as more nodules and higher nitrogenase activity (acetylene reduction) compared with natural roots. Decreased lipid peroxidation, proline accumulation and catalase/peroxidase activities were found in 'hairy' roots under salinity stress. Genistein significantly increased nodulation and nitrogen fixation and improved roots and shoot growth. Although genistein alleviated lipid peroxidation under salinity stress, it had no significant effect on the activity of antioxidant enzymes. In general, composite plants were more competitive in growth, nodulation and nitrogen fixation than normal non-transgenic even under salinity stress conditions.
The soybean product MON 87701 × MON 89788 expresses both the cry1Ac gene derived from Bacillus thuringiensis and the cp4 epsps (5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase) gene derived from Agrobacterium sp. strain CP4. Each biotechnology-derived trait confers specific benefits of insect resistance and glyphosate tolerance, respectively. The purpose of this study was to compare the composition of seed and forage from this combined-trait product to those of conventional soybean grown in geographically and climatically distinct regions. Field trials were conducted in the United States during the 2007 growing season, in Argentina during the 2007-2008 growing season, and in the northern and southern soybean regions of Brazil during the 2007-2008 and 2008-2009 growing seasons. Results demonstrated that the compositional equivalence of MON 87701 × MON 89788 to the conventional soybean extended across all regions and growing seasons. Further evaluation of the data showed that natural variation (region and growing season) contributed more to compositional variability in soybean, particularly for such components as isoflavones, fatty acids, and vitamin E, than transgene insertion.
To mitigate hyperacute rejection, pigs have been generated with alpha-Gal transferase gene knockout and transgenic expression of human decay accelerating factor (hDAF), MCP, and CD59. Additionally, heme-oxygenase-1 (HO-1) has been suggested to defend endothelial cells. Sera (MS) (0%, 1%, 5%, 10%, and 15%) from Formosan macaques (Macaca cyclopis, MC), an Old World monkey wildly populated in Taiwan, was used to test the protective in vitro, effects of hDAF or hDAF/hHO-1 on porcine aortic endothelial cells (pAEC) derived from hDAF(+), hDAF(+)/hHO-1(+), and hDAF(+)/hHO-1(-) and 1 nontransgenic pAEC. Ten percent human serum (HS) served as a positive control. When MS addition increased to 10% or 15%, all transgenic pAEC exhibited a greater survival than nontransgenic pAEC. Noticeably, 15% MS reduced survived to <10% versus >40% in nontransgenic and transgenic pAEC, respectively. These results revealed that hDAF exerted protective effects against MC complement activation. However, comparing with 10% MS and HS in pAEC of nontransgenic pigs, the survivability was higher in HS, suggesting that complement activation by MS was more toxic than that by HS. Furthermore, hDAF(+)/hHO-1(+) showed no further protection against effects of MS on transgenic pAEC.
Mixed viral infections can induce different changes in symptom development, genome accumulation and tissue tropism. These issues were investigated for two phloem-limited begomoviruses, Abutilon mosaic virus (AbMV) and Tomato yellow leaf curl Sardinia virus (TYLCSV) in Nicotiana benthamiana plants doubly infected by either the potyvirus Cowpea aphid-borne mosaic virus (CABMV) or the tombusvirus Artichoke mottled crinkle virus (AMCV). Both RNA viruses induced an increase of the amount of AbMV, led to its occasional egress from the phloem and induced symptom aggravation, while the amount and tissue tropism of TYLCSV were almost unaffected. In transgenic plants expressing the silencing suppressors of CABMV (HC-Pro) or AMCV (P19), AbMV was supported to a much lesser extent than in the mixed infections, with the effect of CABMV HC-Pro being superior to that of AMCV P19. Neither of the silencing suppressors influenced TYLCSV accumulation. These results demonstrate that begomoviruses differentially respond to the invasion of other viruses and to silencing suppression.
Parasite proteinases have important functions in host-parasite interactions. Consequently, they have been investigated as targets for the control of both plant and animal parasites. Plant parasitic nematodes cause estimated annual losses to world agriculture of US$100 billion and, currently, their control often relies on highly toxic nematicides, with associated environmental risks. The potential of disrupting digestive proteinases for plant parasitic nematode control, via expression of proteinase inhibitors in transgenic plants, is summarized here by Catherine Lilley, Pauline Devlin, Peter Urwin and Howard Atkinson. They then consider whether the approach of expressing antinematode proteins in plants can be adapted for control of certain animal parasitic nematodes.
A novel aroA gene encoding 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase from Bacillus cereus was identified and overexpressed by genomic library construction and complementary screening. The enzyme was then purified to homogeneity. We also transformed the aroA ( B. cereus ) gene into Arabidopsis thaliana by a floral dip method, and demonstrated that transgenic A. thaliana plants exhibited significant glyphosate resistance compared with the wild type. These results strongly suggested that the strategy was highly efficient and advantageous for rapidly cloning aroA genes from microorganisms in natural environments.
World-wide crop productivity is highly impacted by various extreme environmental conditions. In the present investigation, activation tagged (AT) line A10-Ds-RFP6 of rice endowed with improved agronomic attributes was tested for its tolerance ability against drought and salinity stress conditions as well as identification of genes associated with these traits. Under both drought and salinity stress conditions, A10-Ds-RFP6 line exhibited increased seed germination rates and improved plant growth characteristics at seedling, vegetative and reproductive stages as compared to wild-type (WT) plants. Moreover, A10-Ds-RFP6 revealed effective antioxidant systems resulting in decreased accumulation of reactive oxygen species and delayed stress symptoms compared to WT plants. Reduced accumulation of malondialdehyde with concomitant increase in proline and soluble sugars in A10-Ds-RFP6 line further endorse its improved stress tolerance levels. Furthermore, A10-Ds-RFP6 disclosed enhanced plant water content, photosynthetic efficiency, stomatal conductance, water use efficiency and maximum quantum yield compared to WT plants. TAIL and qRT-PCR analyses of AT rice line revealed the integration site of Ds element in the genome and increased expression levels of CDC48 and acetyltransferase genes involved in various aspects of plant development and stress tolerance. As such, the promising AT line plausibly serve as a rare genetic resource for fortifying stress tolerance and productivity traits of elite rice cultivars.
The three antiviral vaccines discovered in the 18th century (smallpox), 19th century (rabies), and 20th century (polio) share a common feature: none would ever be licensed today for human vaccination. Yet Jenner's smallpox vaccine led to the eradication of smallpox, Pasteur's rabies vaccine represented the first successful post-exposure treatment of people bitten by rabid animals, and polio vaccine administered since its discovery in 1950 is leading to the eradication of polio (in the years 2004-2005) from the earth. However, in the case of rabies, efforts at complete eradication are unrealistic, despite the availability of a very effective vaccine, since rabies, unlike smallpox and polio, is not limited to humans and can infect all domestic and wild mammalian species. Rabies is probably the oldest known infectious disease, yet knowledge of the virus and the disease is far from complete. For instance, the appearance of 24 cases of "cryptic" rabies in the USA, i.e. cases not associated with any bite or scratch, with an incubation period in humans extending 6-8 years, is a puzzling phenomenon that cannot be readily explained. On the other hand, rabies is one of the few strictly neuronal infections and, as such, is an excellent model for the study of neurotropic virus distribution in the brain. Apoptosis induced by a rabies strain expressing high levels of glycoprotein spreads much more slowly through brain tissue than that induced by strains producing lower glycoprotein levels. Attenuated rabies virus constructed to express twice the normal glycoprotein levels is also an excellent antigen for induction of immune responses in the host. Foreign antigens using this vector may also produce highly immunogenic vaccines. Global approach to immunization. Those monitoring the spread of AIDS in many parts of the world know that cost of treatment is one of the major problems in combating the disease. Vaccines against HIV face the same problem. In general, the price of vaccines and sera is exorbitant for the afflicted population in developing countries. In addition, the dearth of syringes, the unavailability of nurses and doctors to administer multiple vaccine injections, and other factors in these countries require a drastic change in current vaccine production approaches. About 12 years ago, plants became vehicles to produce biomedical reagents. Plants can be exposed directly to a construct containing a foreign gene and Agrobacterium to create a transgenic plant that, over several generations, produces the desired product. Alternatively, plants infected with a plant virus (e.g. alfalfa mosaic virus) fused with a foreign gene can propagate the foreign antigen as the virus multiplies. Extraction of the plant virus followed by purification provides the desired biomedical product. Our use of either of these systems has led to the creation of plants producing vaccines, sera, hormones, and other biological reagents. In two clinical trials at the Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry of the Polish Academy of Sciences in Poznań (Poland), volunteers who ingested lettuce expressing hepatitis B vaccine showed hepatitis B antibodies in their sera. In another trial carried out at the Biotechnology Foundation Laboratories in Philadelphia (USA), volunteers ingesting a spinach-rabies vaccine showed an immunological priming effect, since only one injection of commercially available rabies vaccine significantly raised the level of rabies-specific antibodies. Vaccines against HIV gp120 and Tat have been produced in spinach, and a construct of gp120 with the CD4 receptor is now being adapted to this plant. Two types of antibodies against rabies and against colorectal cancer are being produced in tobacco and in lettuce. The suboptimal quality of the currently available anthrax vaccine prompted our efforts to produce the anthrax protective antigen (PA) in tobacco and lettuce. Quite clearly, plants will play a prominent role in producing a variety of biomedical reagents in the future.
In addition to the issue of obesity in humans, the production of low-fat meat from domestic animals is important in the agricultural industry to satisfy consumer demand. Understanding the regulation of lipolysis in adipose tissue could advance our knowledge to potentially solve both issues. Although the G0/G1 switch gene 2 (G0S2) was recently identified as an inhibitor of adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) in vitro, its role in vivo has not been fully clarified. This study was conducted to investigate the role of G0S2 gene in vivo by using two independent transgenic quail lines during different energy conditions. Unexpectedly, G0S2 overexpression had a negligible effect on plasma NEFA concentration, fat cell size and fat pad weight under ad libitum feeding condition when adipose lipolytic activity is minimal. A two-week feed restriction in non-transgenic quail expectedly caused increased plasma NEFA concentration and dramatically reduced fat cell size and fat pad weight. Contrary, G0S2 overexpression under a feed restriction resulted in a significantly less elevation of plasma NEFA concentration and smaller reductions in fat pad weights and fat cell size compared to non-transgenic quail, demonstrating inhibition of lipolysis and resistance to loss of fat by G0S2. Excessive G0S2 inhibits lipolysis in vivo during active lipolytic conditions, such as food restriction and fasting, suggesting G0S2 as a potential target for treatment of obesity. In addition, transgenic quail are novel models for studying lipid metabolism and mechanisms of obesity.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is an important cereal crop grown for both the feed and malting industries. The allelic dwarfing gene sdw1/denso has been used throughout the world to develop commercial barley varieties. Proteomic analysis offers a new approach to identify a broad spectrum of genes that are expressed in the living system. Two-dimensional electrophoresis and mass spectrometry were applied to investigate changes in protein abundance associated with different juvenile growth habit as effect of the denso locus in barley homozygous lines derived from a Maresi × Pomo cross combination. A total of 31 protein spots were revealed that demonstrate quantitative differences in protein abundance between the analyzed plants with different juvenile growth habit, and these protein spots were selected to be identified by mass spectrometry. Identification was successful for 27 spots, and functional annotations of proteins revealed that most of them are involved in metabolism and disease/defense-related processes. Functions of the identified proteins and their probable influence on the growth habit in barley are discussed.
Improvements in diet diversification and quality can be facilitated by greater cooperation between the agricultural and the nutrition communities, according to an expert panel that met in early 2002. Encouraged to think innovatively, the panelists agreed that modern technology offers the potential to increase the amount and nutritional content of the food supply in developing countries, especially if the enhancements are made to the highest-yielding indigenous staple crops and if a total food-systems approach is taken. All types of interventions should be evaluated for their cost-effectiveness in preventing nutritional deficiencies in the developing world and for their sustainability.
The fundamental reason that plant breeding using either conventional breeding or biotechnology is so cost-effective is that the benefits of a one-time investment at a central research location can be multiplied over time across nations all over the world. Supplementation and fortification incur the same recurrent costs year after year in country after country. However, each intervention has its own comparative advantages, such that a combination of several interventions is required to substantially reduce micronutrient malnutrition. Improving the density of trace minerals in plants also reduces input requirements and raises crop yields. A simulation model for India and Bangladesh demonstrated that $42 million invested in conventional breeding in developing and planting iron- and zinc-dense varieties of rice and wheat on only 10% of the acreage used for these crops would return $4.9 billion in improved nutrition (including a total of 44 million prevented cases of anemia over 10 years) and higher agricultural productivity.
Bioterrorists seek to use highly virulent pathogens to cause social and economic disruption. Historical agents such as anthrax, Yersinia pestis and botulinum toxin can easily be produced, whereas others such as hemorragic fever virus require much more sophisticated infrastructure and government-scale resources. In the near future, with the spread of new biotechnologies, bioterrorists may produce new transgenic pathogens. Epidemiological surveillance and diagnostic capacities should thus be more reactive. Real-time epidemiological surveillance together with a network of high-security laboratories would enable us to cope effectively with new infectious diseases that emerge naturally or through human manipulation. Clinical and research skills should be merged in infection-control centers, bringing a new dynamic to microbiology.
